Tony Osauzo, Benin Chairmen of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 18 local government areas of Edo State have described as untrue the purported vote of no confidence passed on the National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. This followed an earlier statement in which Esan Central APC chairman, Mike Anakosa, said the party chairmen in the 18 local government areas of the state have passed a vote of no confidence on Oshiomhole for allegedly trying to disintegrate the party in the state. The statement reaffirmed the support of the chairmen‎ for the second term bid of Governor Obaseki on account of his developmental strides. But a statement signed by Etsako West chairman of the APC, Ibrahim Akokia, who doubles as chairman of APC chairmen, Suleman Bagude (Etsako Central) and Lugard Alukpe, (Owan West), debunked the claim of vote of no confidence on the National Chairman. “We are the chairmen of the party in the 18 LGA s and we are not aware of the meeting where a vote of no confidence was passed on the national chairman of our party, Comrade Oshiomhole, who is doing very well. Rather we are aware that majority of the chairmen have suffered intimidation, harassment and assault in the hands of the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration, what we have never seen in the politics of our dear state. “Therefore, we the chairmen have passed a vote of no confidence on Governor Obaseki and the suspended state chairman of the party, Anselm Ojezua. They have not only failed the party but the people of the state. “Besides, from the disclosure from the some PDP leaders, Obaseki and Ojezua have been involved in anti-party activities, therefore, they lack the moral rights to remain in this party. Oshiomhole remains our leader and we pass vote of confidence in his leadership. ‎”It is sad that the governor and his cohorts are using money to induce our members but majority of them, we are happy, have resisted his moves to intimidate them. “We call on the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party to expel Obaseki from APC because he is on a mission to destroy APC in Edo State but we will resist it,” statement said.  ‎        