Molly Kilete, Abuja The Police Service Commission (PSC) says it has concluded plans to deploy 45 of its personnel to monitor the conduct of police officers on electoral duties in the upcoming Governorship Elections in Bayelsa and Kogi States. Similarly, the PSC said it has provided some dedicated phone lines for Nigerians to call and report cases of police misconduct or exemplary conduct during the elections in the two states. PSC Head of Press and Public Relations, Ikechukwu Ani, said in a statement that: “The Police Service Commission has concluded arrangements to deploy Staff Monitors to Bayelsa and Kogi States to monitor the conduct of Police Men on electoral duties during the November 16th Governorship Elections in the two States. Forty five (45) Staff Monitors, 20 for Bayelsa State and 25 for Kogi State will be in the two States to benchmark the conduct of the Officers with approved rules of engagement for Police Officers on electoral duties and other relevant laws guiding such exercise. “Cases of Police misconduct arising from the monitoring exercise will be investigated by the Commission and any Police Officer found guilty will be punished accordingly. The Officers are advised to ensure that they operate within the law and should be professional in their conduct while remaining neutral and apolitical. “The Commission Staff Monitors will be in the eight local government Areas of Bayelsa State and the 21 local government Areas of Kogi State. The team will be expected to arrive the two States tomorrow, Wednesday, November 13th, 2019 to monitor deployment of men and materials, conduct of the Officers before, during and after the elections. “The Bayelsa State team will be led by Mr. Austin Braimoh, Honourable Commissioner in the Commission representing the South South geo-political Zone and the Media, while the Kogi State team will be led by Bar. Rommy Mom, also an Honourable Commissioner in the Commission representing the North Central geo-political zone and the Human Rights Organizations. “Already dedicated telephone lines have been provided for Nigerians to call and report cases of police misconduct or exemplary conduct during the elections. The lines are; Bayelsa Central……08033326666, Bayelsa East…..08037002162, Bayelsa West….08062583132, Situation Room, …08088155981; Kogi Central…08090976725, Kogi East….08061509877, Kogi West…….08054970152, Situation Room,……..09022202111 “The Chairman of the Commission, Musiliu Smith, a retired Inspector General of Police, said the monitoring exercise is derived from the constitutional mandate of the Commission to exercise disciplinary control over the police. According to him, the Police must be held accountable for its actions and inactions including during elections. “He said the Commission will continue to send Monitors to monitor police conducts during elections as part of its contribution to the sustaining of the nation’s growing democracy, as the Police, the lead Agency in both internal and election security are expected to ensure that citizens are provided the enabling environment to discharge their civic responsibility and that the electoral process is adequately protected.”