In a world of competition, the only way to remain relevant is by being exceptional. To attain this status, innovative and consistency are imperative. These attribute have positioned Vivo in the minds of its customers as a company that has been being consistent and innovative with its smartphone offerings. Since its global debut in 2009, Vivo has produced and shipped well over 10 million smartphone devices around the world with each device boasting of a unique offering unrivalled by its closest competitor in the market. Vivo’s V7 and V7plus devices launched at the Mobile World Congress, were the first smartphones to spot an elevating 24MP front camera from APEX™. Not stopping at that, vivo upgraded its V15 Pro from the 24MP to 32MP Elevating Front Camera. In January 2018, vivo received a global acclaim for introducing the first In-Display Fingerprint sensor with its X21 and the feat came at a time when the industry standard was having a fingerprint sensor either at the rear of the device or on the home button. Just recently, Vivo  introduced yet another amazing feature with its latest device– the V17 Pro. This innovative device houses a total of six cameras made up of the first ever Dual Pop Up Front Camera and a 60MP AI Quad Rear Camera. The Dual Pop Up Front Camera also has the Selfie Softlight which helps to capture clear pictures in lowlight environments while the rear camera has a combination of lenses including the macro that helps capture every exquisite detail of close up shots. This camera also has a Pose™ Master which interestingly, suggests poses for users when taking photos. Asides pioneering smartphone advancement, Vivo also shows interest in activities aimed at creating an extraordinary life for its youthful consumers. From its involvement as a sponsor at the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia to its partnership with PUBG Games Mobile as its official smartphone sponsor amongst many others, it has become evident that vivo knows how and where to connect with its teeming fans. Indeed Vivo’s strategy of continually prioritizing the needs of its consumers and placing a premium on innovation has set the smartphone brand apart in the clustered smartphone market.