The Presidency, through an aide, has given an informal response to the US indictment of Air Peace CEO Allen Onyema on criminal fraud charges, suggesting that the airline mogul answer for the crimes of which he has been formally accused. This was contained in a tweet storm by Lauretta Onochie, President Muhammadu Buhari’s aide on Social Media. In her verified tweeter handle, Onochie said: “I do not understand what Pres.@MBuhari has to do with Mr Onyema of AirPeace being indicted and charged in the USA. “According to our Attorney General, the Fed. Govt has not been informed of the situation. “American laws go after those who BREAK them. What a man sows…. “When the scales suddenly fall off their eyes, we must give it time because it’s either they are pursuing something or something is pursuing them. “When AirPeace proprietor became a ‘hero,’ I was not fooled. Something was pursuing him. He knew America had him where they wanted him.” Onochie’s tweet thread is attached below: 1. I do not understand what Pres. @MBuhari has to do with Mr. Onyema of Airpeace being indicted and charged in the USA. According to our Attorney General, the Fed. Govt. has not even been informed of the situation. American laws go after those who BREAK themWhat a man sows…. — Lauretta Onochie (@Laurestar) November 24, 2019  2. How much has Nigeria invested in the Niger Delta Amnesty Programme, NDDC & 13% derivation funds?All, mostly in a black hole Do we know the extent of poverty, ignorance & disease in the Niger Delta?Please let America too help us see how Niger Delta underdeveloped Niger Delta — Lauretta Onochie (@Laurestar) November 24, 2019  3. Those of us from the Niger Delta who are the direct beneficiaries of the sufferings that emanated from the looting of our wealth, will tackle them. It's our war that is being fought. Laws, Nigerian or American, go after those who break them so we must mind our business. QED! — Lauretta Onochie (@Laurestar) November 24, 2019  4. We are smarter now than ever before. Gradually, the scales of tribalism, religious affinity and political loyalty, are falling off our eyes and being replaced by Nigerianism. Nigerians are not keen on tales by the moonlight.Let him Return to America and face his accusers! — Lauretta Onochie (@Laurestar) November 24, 2019  I was not fooled. I repeat. Yes I have personal interest. I'm a Niger Deltan. The funds he allegedly moved about belong to me and others from the region. Do you now get it? — Lauretta Onochie (@Laurestar) November 24, 2019 