Abdulrazaq Mungadi, Gombe The ex-chairman of Nigeria’s Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Malam Nuhu Ribadu, will on Monday, November 4, make a presentation on anti-corruption and good governance for the commissioners-designate, permanent secretaries, special advisers to the Gombe State Governor. According to Ismaila Uba Misilli, the Senior Special Assistant Gombe State Governor on Media and Publicity, the state government will, ahead of the inauguration of the 21-member executive council, hold a 2-day retreat for the commissioners-designate, permanent secretaries and equivalent officers. He said the retreat which is themed “Together We Can” is aimed at keeping the cabinet members up to speed on the policy direction of Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya’s administration in Gombe. “The retreat, which will hold from Monday, 4th to Tuesday 5th November, 2019 will provide a veritable platform for the appointees to brainstorm and exchange ideas on Government’s policy direction, blue print and programmes with a view to charting ways of ensuring effective and efficient service delivery,” Misilli said. He explained that the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr Boss Mustapha, will grace the occasion as the special guest of honour while former Governor of Gombe State, Senator Muhammad Danjuma Goje,  will chair the event; and that the former EFCC boss Ribadu will make a presentation on the anti-corruption and good governance. “There will be other paper presentations by the former Director General of National Pension Commission (PenCom) Malam Muhammad Kabir Ahmad, Retired Federal Permanent Secretary and former Gombe state Head of Civil Service, Dr. Ibrahim Jalo Daudu.” “Other resource persons billed to grace the occasion are: Director-General, Bureau for Public Service Reform, Dr. Dasuki Arabi, Chief Executive Officer of MSCA project, Mr. Mark Abani, Financial Management Consultant, Dr. Chinedu Eze and retired Director News of NTA and one time Information commissioner in Niger state, Aliyu Baba Barau among others,” Misilli said in a statement issued on Sunday.