EVERY passing day, the dissonance in the presidency, the most prized political office in the land is becoming obvious. The cracks in the wall appear clear as well. Ignore the denials that there is ‘no cold war’  in Aso Rock’, Nigeria’s seat of power. What we hear may not be all there is in the unraveling story as it regards the current travails of  vice president Yemi Osinbajo.  Last week, the clouds were beginning to clear. No more stonewalling on the matter that has engaged public attention for months.  For the first time, the presidency officially confirmed the sack of scores of aides of the vice president. In a statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the President (Media & Publicity), Garba Shehu, the presidency said the action was to “streamline decision-making, cut down multiple authorities and reduce the cost of administration”. The statement  also stated that the exercise was approved by President Muhammadu Buhari who’s currently in London on a ‘private visit’, adding that it was in response to the general public perception that the presidency has an oversized and bloated workforce which “acts as a drag on efficiency”. To further strengthen the decision it has taken, the presidency insisted  that the overriding objective of the exercise was  to save taxpayers’ money and deliver needed service to the public. You see, any argument that is anchored on saving cost seems to get a measure of public support, it has been reported that more than half of  of these  aides are funded by international donor agencies. Few days before the statement rationalising the action, amid reports in the media, the presidency had flatly denied that nothing of such took place, indeed, that there was no cold war in the Aso Villa .  Even the vice president’s media aide, Mr. Laolu Akande, played into their hands when he dismissed the report of the sack as ‘fake news’. As the spokesman for Afenifere, Yinka Odumaki said, what’s the point defending a vice president who has refused to admit what he is up against, that the relation between him and the President has reached an all-time low. I can understand the VP’s  dilemma and refusal to publicly admit that he is under siege  in the presidency. Once he does that, he’s finished. And his impeachment will be a done deal.   The interpretation of Odumakin’s comment  is simple: The Vice President should stop deluding himself that all is well with him in the presidency. He should realise that there’s a constant assault on him, that may compel him to take a  ‘fork in the road’ option, a point where he has to take a choice of two possibilities: either  to continue to bear the humiliation with equanimity – or  resign, honourably. As a pastor before he became the vice president, Osinbajo needs no reminding or tutorials that what he’s up against right now can be likened to ‘spiritual warfare’. It’s not a ‘war’ you cannot  win with bare hands. Whether he will come out this stronger and better as a pastor in his Church said few days ago, only time will tell. As I said in this column on September 24, the presidency is a prize with a heavy price. The burden of national unity rests heavily on the President. He shares this responsibility with the vice president with whom he campaigned and won the presidency. But each partner that makes up a presidential ticket is often advised not to be in a haste to say how splendid his experience in the presidency has been until it’s all over. Those who ignore this advice often  come to regret it when things begin to go wrong. That’s why Sophocles, one of the three ancient Greek tragedians whose plays have survived till now gave this evergreen advice: “One must wait until the evening to see how splendid the day has been, because there is still some time before the sun goes down”. But this plain: When the bond of friendship, trust and respect between two men elected on the same ticket begins to get weaker rather than stronger, it doesn’t  make it easy  for the President to move his agenda for the country. And for the Vice  President himself, it dims the electricity that’s supposed to come from his own contribution to that agenda. It’s however safe to say now that there’s a conflict of sort  in the camps  of  both men. That perhaps makes the following questions necessary: Is there a smoking gun against the vice president?  Where could Osinbajo have gone wrong after a  flying start of a  relation  with the President that was once described in superlative terms as a partnership of diamond brilliance? How come now that this relation that Nigerians  were told  by the President himself was as  nice as the warmth of Styrofoam, couldn’t cut ice anymore? It, indeed, troubles the mind how Osinbajo  has grown from a substantial figure who the President needed to send on key national matters to calm frayed nerves, and now,  he is seen  as a man who is  held in strong suspicion. Looking at some of the  allegations against Osinbajo as reported by the media, one thing that  readily comes to my mind is what Thomas Marshall of  the United States said in 1920 when he was vice president.  Difficult situations he faced made him to compare the vice president to a cataleptic. To use his own words,  “the vice president cannot speak, he cannot move, he suffers pain, yet he is perfectly conscious of everything that is going on about him”. If it’s easy to read a man’s mind, one can then say that  vice president Osinbajo is deeply worried about what is happening to him, even though he would not admit it openly. Two months ago, he said it was  the handiwork of “fifth columnists”.  In his heart,  he knows his position is  becoming a frustrating one. This may  just be the beginning of worse things come. Who knows. As vice president, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar went through worse situation during the second term of President Olusegun Obasanjo (2003-2007). But let’s look at some of the allegations against Osinbajo as had been reported by the media . According to the newspapers , the plot to remove the vice president has gathered momentum. The plot, the papers  claimed, dates back  to when Osinbajo  was Acting President in May 2017. That was when President Buhari was on medical vacation  in the United Kingdom. Section 145 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended)  gives the vice president the powers to function as Acting President during temporary absence of the President. Osinbajo no longer enjoys that privilege anymore. Reason, not clear. One  of the allegations is that, as Acting President, (Osinbajo) “authorized payment of N5.9bn for  the National Emergency Management Agency(NEMA) without approval from the National Assembly.  His traducers also claim that though he is Chairman of the governing board of NEMA, he ought  to get  the approval of NASS before any money could be withdrawn from the Consolidated Revenue Fund. The vice president allegedly  did not go through that laid down channel. The vice president was also reported to have signed  N25bn for the Nigerian  National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) as ‘funding contract’ when he had no such powers to do so . Another allegation was  the reported disbursement of funds by the Federal Government-backed Social Investment Programme (SIP) which then was  domiciled in his office. His accusers said he did not manage that pool of fund in a transparent manner. But the vice president said he has always complied with the law.   Other reports tended to  link  the vice president to the sack of  former boss of the Department of State Services (DSS) Lawal Daura in 2017, by Osinbajo as Acting President. Gleaning from Atiku’s feud with Obasanjo which began early in the 2004, it started  with disagreement over policy direction, anchored on allegation of ‘corruption’  against the former vice president.  I still recollect that, as Editor of Sunday Champion then, I wrote  in my column of June 6, 2004, that this feud would certainly deepen. And it did. Few weeks on, many of Atiku’s aides, including his Aide -de –Camp (ADC)  media consultant and veteran journalist, Garba Shehu (now SSA to the President on Media & Publicity) were sacked by fiat by President Obasanjo. One of Atiku’s companies, Integrated Logistics (INTELS) was  suspended from operations at the nation’s ports. The company was accused of  pushing other competitors out of business. It was all lies. It was all about searching for a smoking gun against Atiku. The difference between Atiku and  Osinbajo is huge. Atiku was more popular than his boss. He has influence and warchest. Atiku has  a  deft political instinct. These attributes have kept him surviving all plots  against  him . But Osinbajo has none of that . He is  more of a manager who may not control the career bureaucrats and politicians in the revolving doors of power  in Aso Rock.