The Obolo Youth Coalition (OYC) has pleaded with the serving leadership of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) to investigate and probe the many unexecuted projects in Andoni Local Government Area of Rivers. The group’s President, Mr Mkpon Ijonama, made the plea in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Port Harcourt while reacting to the planned forensic investigation of the commission. Describing the move as long overdue, he lamented the presence of 28 unexecuted and abandoned projects scattered across the area. “Every well-meaning youth in Andoni is happy with President Muhammadu Buhari on his renewed effort toward bringing sanity to the NDDC. “OYC is solidly in support of this laudable move as it would expose those contractors behind several abandoned jobs in our local communities,” he said. Ijonama said that as part of efforts to assist the commission to achieve its aim, it had come up with valid information on abandoned NDDC projects after a thorough investigation and tour of the area. He listed some of the NDDC projects abandoned in various parts of Andoni Local Government Area between 2004 to 2014 as
Construction Of Shore Protection And Sandfilling Of Ataba To Aba-Ijong, Reclamation/Shore Protection and the Construction Of Asukoyet Ikuru Asukama Road And Bridge. Others are Supervision And Desgin Of Construction  f Ogoloma-Ukaya Road And Drains And Ayama Mission Rd, Installation Of 500Kva/11 Transformer At Oka/Ama, Ataba Community, Rehabilitation Of Water Project At Agwu-Obolo. The projects also include the Construction Of Unity Road To Amiakpu Community Road, Construction Of Solar Powered Water Project At Oyorokoto, Construction Of Solar Powered Water At Egbormung, Construction Of Shore Protection And Sandfilling Of Ataba to Aba-Ijong, Andoni L.G.A Rivers State. He noted that the Construction Of Ogoloma-Ukaya Road And Drains, Rigid Pavement, Construction Of Kaa-Ataba Road And Bridge, Rivers State were also part of it. The youth leader, however, implored the NDDC to beam its searchlight on Andoni LGA to ensure that contractors associated with those abandoned jobs were brought to book. (NAN)