This estate is situated at Arepo, also available at Magodo G.R.A in Lagos and Abuja. It has a serene and organised environment at the boundary of Lagos and Ogun states, hosting presently journalists estate 1 and 2. The estate is covered by Global Certificate of Occupancy. Specifically, The Grenadines Homes is a five-minute drive from Magodo/Alausa Secretariat, Lagos state seat of power. A fifteen-minute drive to Murtala Muhammed airport all within mainland Lagos. It is also a twenty-five-minute drive from the business community of Victoria Island and Ikoyi in downtown Lagos. The Estate is developed along a zonal parameter commercial zone, residential zone, infrastructures, recreational gardens/park, administrative/service delivery, and security. The Grenadines Homes, Citiview Estate is a private estate. The estate sets a  high-level benchmark in service delivery, infrastructures, environment,  functional and lofty style. This post is a reaction to some requests on the 6 best residential Estates with decent houses in Lagos Island. It has put together a list of residential estates on the mainland which are either unpopular or unrecognized. However, the fact that everyone is drifting to the Island does not mean that there are no good apartments for men and women of high calibers on the Lagos mainland. Thinking about getting a residential house in Lagos? A place you and your family can stay and be safe at the same time, either on the island or mainland? I’ve got for you a list of best estates in Lagos, so sit back and enjoy. A residential estate is a group of homes and other buildings built together as a single development. It is usually built by a single contractor, with only a few styles of house or building design, so they tend to be uniform in appearance. Most people already assume that residential estates are very expensive because of the services that come with them. The good news is, residential estates on the Lagos mainland are not as expensive as those on the Island, yet residents still tend to enjoy the same benefits.