Steve Agbota  The Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA) command of the Nigeria Customs Service has intercepted N68.9million frozen products smuggled through the airport. Also, the Cargo Section of the Service has seized 23 bags of stun guns, two packages of military uniform, walkie talkie, Police Jackets and mini cameras and 25 packaged of drones. This was revealed at a joint press conference between the Customs Area Controllers of the MMIA command and Murtala Muhammed Area Command (cargo section), headed by Mr. Adewale Adeniyi and Lena Oyama. It was gathered that 40 cartons were intercepted on the Southern African Airways flight and 104 cartons were abandoned on the tarmac of the terminal. Addressing journalists, the Controller of MMIA, Compt. Adeniyi said the seizure was as a result of the border closure because the seizure was first in its kind in the history of the airport commands. He said: “On the night of 10th November, following the discharge of cargo from a South African Airways flight 5A060 from Johannesbur‘g, our tarmac operatives intercepted a consignment which was indicated as perishables, and are therefore qualified for pre-release at the cargo wing. “The officers requested to sight the items before transferring them. Though the airway bill described the goods as fresh vegetables, the contents were later discovered to be assorted frozen products. In all, there were 40 cartons, including beef, pork and fish fillets. It became obvious that the importers through his agents have prepared a pre-release documentation purporting the imports to be fresh vegetables with the sole intention to evade the import prohibition order. “At about 00:05 hrs, the following morning, another consignment of 104 cartons comprising pork meat, beef and turkey was seen abandoned inside 4 Dollies close to Gate 13. The total duty paid value of the two seizures is N68.9million “The tarmac seizure is coming on the heel of other seizures recently made at the Cargo Wing. This clearly points to a possible shift of strategy by smugglers. With the border drill making it a nightmare for smuggling operation at the borders, intelligence has suggested that our airports are now being considered as options.” The CAC who said though the MMIA and the cargo section commands are distinct administratively, they have a good working relationship to stop smuggling. “Though, the commands are distinct administratively, we are still connected in our operations, since the tarmac in the International Wing Services the cargo operation in the other command. It is therefore, imperative for us to create a close-working environment to ensure that criminals do not exploit divisions to perpetrate their business. “I am glad to inform you that the close working relationship nurtured a smooth take off of the new command. “To ensure effective coverage of the tarmac, we conduct joint surveillance of the Tarmac Area, an action that resulted into the seizures for which we are briefing you.” Also speaking, the CAC of the Cargo section, Compt. Oyama said her command had intercepted 23 bags of stun guns, military uniforms 25 packages of drones were intercepted. She also disclosed that the revenue of the command increased by 100.6 percent of the expected revenue target. Her words: “For the month of August 2019, the MMA Command generated a total sum of N4.3billion. This figure represents 100.6 per cent of the expected revenue target for the month of August 2019. “For the month of September 2019, the MMA Command generated a total sum of N4.9billion. This figure represents 115.6 per cent of the expected revenue target for the month of September 2019, exceeding the monthly target by N674million.” The seizures, she said comprises “25 packaged of drones, 23 bags of stun guns, 2 packages of military uniform, walkie talkie, Police Jackets and mini cameras.”