Iheanacho Nwosu, Lagos The Chief Whip of the Nigerian Senate and former Governor of Abia State, Dr Orji Kalu, has congratulated the newly-elected Governor of Bayelsa State, Mr David Lyon of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on his victory in the November 16 election. He attributed the success of the APC in the poll to the general acceptability of the party in Bayelsa State. According to Kalu, the ideals of the APC will continue to place the party above other political parties, adding that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government has repositioned the country despite all odds. In a press release by his media office, the Senator called on the newly-elected governor to be magnanimous in his victory by imbibing the spirit of sportsmanship and extending a hand of fellowship to his closest rival, Mr Duoye Diri of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), and other governorship candidates in the election. He said, “Following the victory of Mr David Lyon of the APC in the November 16 governorship election in Bayelsa State, it is clear that the electorate have confidence in the APC. “The people have spoken with their votes and the newly elected-governor will, no doubt, live up to expectations. “The governorship candidates of all the political parties must be commended for the level of maturity displayed before, during and after the poll. “The results of the election were accepted across board in good faith. “The Governor-elect must adopt a participatory approach to governance by running an all-inclusive government. “The mandate given to the newly elected governor is for the entire citizenry of Bayelsa State, including the political opponents of the governor elect. “The interest of the people must be placed above selfish ambitions.” The former governor, while applauding the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), security agencies, civil society organisations and other stakeholders for ensuring a hitch-free poll, cautioned politicians against violence and other social vices.