Over 100 ladies are set for the 2019 Nigeria Ladies Open Golf Championship at the IBB International Golf and Country Club in Abuja from Wednesday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the three-day championship which was won in 2018 by Ugandan Evah Magala is being organised by the Ladies Golf Association of Nigeria (LGAN). It is attracting amateur lady golfers from seven countries, as well as over 100 amateur male golfers. The lady golfers are being expected from countries such as hosts Nigeria, Uganda, Kenya, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Botswana and Zambia. Kayode Adeniyi, the Director, Media and Publicity for the Open, said in a statement on Tuesday that many of the expected players have been training hard at the championship’s venue. “Defending champion Magala who arrived in Abuja since Tuesday last week has not been leaving any stone unturned in her quest to retain the trophy. “This is an indication that the tournament this year will be tougher than that of last year.” Adeniyi went on to quote Magala as assuring that she was well prepared for the competition. “l came early to get acquainted with the Abuja heat and the Abuja golf club’s course. That is how prepared I want to be. I am here to retain the trophy ” “We have handicap 2 and handicap 4 players coming from my country, and there is a Tanzanian who defended one of the trophies here. I also know the capabilities of Nigeria’s Rachael Danjuma. “So, it is not a joking matter. But I am up to the task,” Magala said. Speaking on the championship, Julie Okah-Donli, the Chairperson of the championship’s Organising Committee, said all hands have been on deck in view of the importance of the championship. “We are making efforts to see to it that there will be no shortcomings in providing the ladies the tools to compete favourably. “We know how important the event is. If you play this event and you play very well, you get ranked worldwide as an amateur lady golfer. “This is why you will see so many internationals coming to try and see how this event can help them to get the points needed for seeding,” she said. Wednesday’s event will be ceremoniously teed off by Plateau’s Gov. Simon Lalong, Edo’s Gov. Godwin Obaseki, Sen. David Mark and a host of invited guests. NAN reports that the championship’s Awards Night, Dinner and Prize Presentation will hold on Friday to bring the championship to a close.(NAN)