Tony John, Port Harcourt
 
Rivers State governor,  Nyesom  Wike, has called on Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to prevail  on the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA)  to work with the state government to create the right environment  for the development of the state.
Governor Wike also called for the dredging  of the Rivers Port waterway  to increase economic  activities  at the port, which would generate more employment
Speaking during the commissioning of the Port Harcourt Dockyard Liquid Waste Management treatment plant, constructed by African Circle Pollution Management Limited by the Vice President yesterday,  Governor Wike regretted that the NPA has not been good neighbours to the state government.
He informed Vice President Osinbajo that the NPA entered into an agreement  with  Rivers government  to construct the Industry Road leading to the Port facility, but the federal agency reneged on its commitment.
“I want to report the NPA to Your Excellency,  the Vice President.  They have not been good neighbours.  We entered  into an agreement  to fund the construction of the Industry Road leading to the Port. The NPA  reneged and the state government had to fund the project single-handedly.
“Till date, the NPA has not paid its counterpart fund for the construction  of that road. All they are interested in,  is to collect  rents from the occupants  of the Port”, he said.
The governor urged Rivers-born Executive Director of the NPA to work  with other officials  of the agency to actualize  the dredging  of Rivers  Port.
“The Port here has to be dredged. Without  the dredging  of the waterway to this port, employment  cannot be generated. I call on the Rivers son, who is an executive director in NPA, to work for the dredging of the waterway by NPA”, he said.
Governor Wike said he would support Africa Circle Pollution Management Limited to create employment  opportunities  for the good of Rivers people.
He thanked the company for cleaning up the environment and Rivers waterway through  the facility.
In his address before commissioning the  facility,  Vice President  Osinbajo said the project  was in line with the Build Operate and Transfer Agreement between African Circle and the Federal government. He said the agreement  is  for a period of 20 years.
He said that Africa Circle has by the completion of the facility,  executed a good part of the agreement. He said that the Federal Government will continue its  partnership with Africa Circle Pollution Management Limited for the promotion of environmental protection and sanitation.
The vice president  said that the commissioning  was another opportunity for Nigeria to lead the way in the improvement of the environment. He added that the Federal Government’s  ease of doing business policy would be diligently pursued.  He also noted that the dredging of Warri Port was on course with a railway line into the hinterland.
Permanent Secretary,  Ministry of Transportation,  Sabiu Zakari, said  Federal government would give the company  the necessary support in the spirit of ease of doing business policy.
Former Ogun state governor,  Chief Olusegun Osoba, said that the facility  will collect oil waste and transform them into meaningful by-product. He said that the company had invested $8 million in setting up the company, which will help to clean up the maritime industry.
Former Head of State,   General Abdulsalami Abubakar (retd), said that the company  is a necessary  addition  to the maritime sector.  The commissioning of the plant was witnessed by captains of industry and top government officials.