Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has restated his belief that peaceful relations with Nigeria’s neighbours remained imperative in confronting terrorism and insurgency. He stated while playing host to the United Nations Special Representative of the Secretary-General for West Africa and the Sahel, Mohammad Ibn Chambas at the State House, Abuja, yesterday. Buhari expressed Nigeria’s commitment to stabilising the West-African sub-region within available resources. Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, in a statement quotedBuhari as saying  that he was pleased that the United Nations appreciated his administration’s focus on fighting corruption, poverty and ensuring regional stability. Buhari also reinstated his belief that peaceful relations with Nigeria’s neighbours remained imperative in confronting terrorism and insurgency. Chambas, who represented the UN Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres at the Democracy Day celebration, said the UN boss extended his personal admiration for President Buhari’s “integrity and quality as a statesman especially, in fighting corruption and driving public accountability.” He said the UN appreciated the Nigerian leader’s commitment to tackling poverty, terrorism, insurgency and recharging the Lake Chad. Chambas pledged UN continued technical support to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) towards the next general elections. He also expressed the UN’s delight that Nigeria’s Permanent Representative to the UN, Prof. Tijjani Muhammad-Bande, was elected the President of the 74th UN General Assembly. The UN envoy described Bande as “highly regarded by his peers in New York,” adding that “We will ensure his tenure is a success.” “We have no doubt that he will be a pride to Nigeria and Africa.” In a related development, President Buhari received in audience the First Vice-President of the Republic of South Sudan, Taban Deng Gai, who came to seek Nigeria’s continued support towards lasting peace in his country.