FIBA Africa Zone 3 President and International representative on the board of the Nigeria Basketball Federation, Col. Sam Ahmedu (Retd) has explained the 44-man list of players released last week for camping ahead of the 2019 FIBA Basketball World Cup. Ahmedu, who was recently reelected as President of Zone 3 and member of the FIBA Africa Central Board told Freethrow that Nigerians need not worry about the long list of players. He noted that it was meant to give opportunity to as many players who are willing to spot the national colours, noting that because the camping is divided into phases, the technical crew would have ample time to see the players. Head Coach of Nigeria, Alex Nwora, noted that the players were listed ahead of the team’s camp, which commences on July 7, 2019, in Erie Community College, Buffalo, USA, after weeks of scouting. As part of the Nigeria Basketball Federation’s effort to effectively prepare the team, D’Tigers will face fellow World Cup-bound Dominican Republic at the Palacio de Los Deportes in San Domingo on July 20 and 22, before another test game against ex-NBA and Euro All Stars on July 26, as they round off the first phase of camping. The second phase of camping will commence on July 29, while the invited NBA players are expected to report to camp on August 1, before departing for Toronto on August 5, where they will be facing Canada on August 7 and 9. The final 12-man list will return to Nigeria on August 12, for the final round of training before leaving for China on August 18. Nigeria’s 44-man list for FIBA Basketball World Cup 2019 Ben Uzoh Nwamu Ike Efevhera Michael Stanley Okoye Ike Iroegbu Emegano Obinna Jordan Nwora Diogu Ike Michael Oguine Fetus Ezeli Al-Farouq Aminu Aminu Alade Jordfan Ogundiran Josh Akogie Chris Obekpa Ayodeji Akindele Agu Abuchi Ibe Stephen Domingos Zana Talib Abdul Yahaya David Nwaba Vincent Nnamdi OG Anunoby Okpe Ocheibi Victor Ochai Agbaji Miye Oni Agada Caleb Stephen Domingos Achiuwa Precious Chuma Okeke Semi Ojeleye Kezie Okpalla Stephen Ugochukwu Chimezie Metu Moneke N. I. Chima Tosin Mehinti Vincen Buchi Nwaiwu Joshua Ifeoluwa Ajayi Ekpe Udoh Michael Eric Victor Koko Anthony Charles Bassey Ado Abdul Ike Obiagu