Operatives of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) in Borno State yesterday confirmed the arrest of Aliyu Muhammed, a 24 year-old suspected Boko Haram Improvised Explosive Device (IED) logistics supplier in Maiduguri, the capital of the state. The NSCDC commandant, Ibrahim Abdullahi, disclosed this in an interview in Maiduguri. He said that the suspect was nabbed by men of the command on April 25, following intelligence report while he was on his way to supply bomb materials to Boko Haram terrorists. Abdullahi said that preliminary investigation conducted by the command revealed that the suspect supplied mobile phones battery, wristwatches and laptop computers used for setting off IEDs designed to inflict massive casualties. He said: “The suspect, who pretends to be a tricycle operator in the town, has executed many missions for the insurgents. “He also operates several bank accounts, where he receives funds for Boko Haram in the last six months. “He usually receives large sums of money from the Republic of Chad, through a third party account number to avoid being detected. “We have so far tracked dozens of his transactions, especially at commercial money transfer centres within Maiduguri.” The NSCDC commandant said Mohammed and his accomplices have played different roles in masterminding various attacks, in worship centres and market places in Maiduguri and environs. Abdullahi reiterated the commitment of the command towards complimenting efforts of the army, police and other sister agencies in the counter terrorism campaign in the Northeast. “The command had within the past two years arrest ed more than 25 Boko Haram insurgents, comprising of female suicide bombers, commanders and collaborators in Maiduguri. “The command had, through the dispute resolution department, encouraged more than 40 terrorists to lay down their arms, and they accepted meaningful rehabilitation and reintegration through the Operation Safe Corridor window opportunity provided by the government,” he said. He added that the suspect would be handed over to the 7 Division Garison of the army for further interrogation and profiling. 