Oba Yakubu Buhari, the Olomu of Omupo in Kwara and 14 other distinguished indigenes of the community, were on Saturday honoured with meritorious awards by the community. Each of the awardees were presented with a certificate at a ceremony to mark the 9th coronation anniversary of Oba Buhari, who ascended the throne on June 12, 2010, as the paramount ruler of Omupo community. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the monarch was recently promoted and presented with a staff of office as a second class traditional ruler by the last administration in the state. The award ceremony also witnessed the turning of the sod for the construction of the ultra-modern Omupo Township Hall performed by the monarch and assisted by some community leaders. Dr Monisoye Afolabi, President, Omupo Desecendant Union (ODU) said the awardees were honoured for thier achievements in their various life endeavours as well as contribution to the growth, progress and development of the community. According to Afolabi, the awards were instituted to recognise personal sacrifice, dilligence, merit, service to humanity as well as immense contribution to community development. “No personal achievements or community services by every sons and daughters of this community will go unrecognised and unrewarded. “It is our hope and belief that such recognition will spur the awardees to do more and at the same time serve as a yardstick for others to follow and contribute their quotas. “Our traditional ruler is being honoured today for his recent elevation to a second class status, so also others who have gained deserving promotions as doctors, administrators, academia, police officers and so on,” he said. READ ALSO: Fraud charge against Fayose: EFCC has lost confidence in Justice Olatoregun – CJ Afolabi appealed to the state government to reconsider the community’s request for elevation as a Local Council Development Area among other requests toward boosting the development of the community. Buhari, in his remarks, restated his commitment toward ensuring that the desired socio-economic development envisioned for the community was achieved during his reign. He called on the people of the community, both indigenes and non-indigenes, to be part of the community’s development drive and urged them to continue to imbibe unity, tolerance and peaceful co-existence. Buhari congratulated the awardees for the feats and encouraged them to be more committed and dedicated to community service. Prof. Silvia Malomo, Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Academic, University of Ilorin, in her response on behalf of the awardees, described the gesture as a morale booster, saying it was highly appreciated. Messrs. Tayo Awodiji and Abdulganiyu Salahudeen, members-elect of the Kwara State House of Assembly representing Irepodun and Omupo constituencies respectively, in their goodwill messages, promised to ensure quality representation and good governance. Other awardees included Hon. Wasiu Adewale, Dr (Mrs) Abiola Adimula, Alhaji Tajudeen Adigun, Prof. Mikail Buhari, Engr. William Omoyiola and Dr Steve Olarinoye. Others are: Hon Jibril Emilagba, Archbishop Israel Afolabi, DCP Funsho Olarinoye, DCP Emmanuel Adegbola, Prof Sule Hassan and Dr Ayodeji Olarinoye. (NAN)