Taiwo Oluwadare, Ibadan Association of Yoruba monarchs, known as Yoruba Obas Forum, has read the riot act to Fulani herdsmen allegedly killing and committing other atrocities in the land. The Yoruba monarchs handed down the warning on Tuesday, in a communiqué released following a meeting held on Monday, in Ibadan. In the communiqué signed by Oba Samuel Adeoye, interim president of the association and other executive members, the monarch deliberated on issues affecting the Yoruba nation, including security situation in the country, particularly as it affects Yoruba land; reinvigoration of Yoruba traditional institution and issue on Diaspora and fake Obas. “As a result of the unspeakable and alarming rate of insecurity and activities of supposed Fulani herdsmen and kidnappers in the country, especially in Yorubaland, Yoruba Obas unanimously agreed that the following measures should be taken: that henceforth, no Yoruba Oba shall allocate any portion of land for the purpose of grazing cattle, especially to the Fulani herdsmen without thorough investigation into the genuineness of such venture. “It is advised that the Fulanis committing these atrocities should be pronounced terrorists and the Federal Government must take measures at the earliest possible time. “The law enforcement agencies should be properly equipped to forestall the security challenges affecting the nation. “The Federal Government must take action against those bankrolling the activities of these notorious Fulani killer herdsmen.” “It is, indeed germane for Yoruba Obas to utilise our traditional system in enhancing security. “We must reinforce our local security outfits and community policing to curtail all source of security menace. “In order to arrest the spate of insecurity across the country, the Forum calls for the establishment of state and community policing,” the monarchs said. On the issue of Diaspora and fake Obas, the monarchs said: “The Forum condemned the illegal enthronement or recognition of any person(s) or groups parading the paraphernalia of Yoruba Obaship or linking themselves to any institution of Yoruba Obaship. “We, therefore, submit that the full implementation of the Chieftaincy Law be allowed to take effect to stop such illegality.” On reinvigorating Yoruba traditional institution, the monarchs agreed that the unity of Obas in Yorubaland is non-negotiable and all must be done to foster such harmony. “Governments, at all levels, should give the needed support, as a matter of urgency, to traditional rulers in Yoruba land in safeguarding their domains. “The Federal Ministry of Agriculture, state and local governments should work directly with traditional rulers in revamping the agricultural sector in order to boost food security. “Governments should partner traditional rulers in meaningful policy formulations (economic, social, security, education, etc) and implementations,” the monarchs submitted.