Tony John, Port Harcourt Rivers State Governor,  Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has stated that he remains focused in his defence of the interest of Rivers State because some politicians are easily swayed by  circumstances. Speaking during the solidarity visit by Anglican Bishops of the Province of the Niger Delta,  Governor Wike said that it is difficult to trust any politician totally because  circumstances  determine their positions on issues. He said: “I am not carried away by all the congratulatory and goodwill messages.  The Bishop of Ikwerre knows one man called Mpi. Mpi said when you are moving and you hear footsteps, watch whether the footsteps are with  you or they are stepping back. “So as a politician,  one group you must watch very carefully are the politicians. They are easily swayed.  Some believe.  When they believe,  they believe. Something can entice politicians and they can change.  If you watch what happened at the National Assembly,  you can see that this is the attitude of politicians. You see the party has a position,  before you know it, they are selling out themselves for one plate of porridge.  This one has a case and he wants them to withdraw the case”. The governor added that some persons don’t have  principles and that they simply  use politics  as a cover up for their unprincipled acts. “These things we know and we are guided about it.  I will never let my guard down to say everybody is with me. The only person I can be comfortable with at all times is God. If it is human being,  no. I don’t trust any human being.  It is difficult for me to give 100 percent trust that a man will continue to be like this or like that. The only person that cannot  change is God. For human beings,  they can always change. That is why they are human beings. You can trust a human being,  but be careful to open your eyes,  because  anything can happen”, he said. Governor Wike said that in protecting the interest of Rivers State,  he will never bow to anybody. “I will not go to bow to anybody.  I will defend the interest of our State. As far as God lives, this state will remain a Christian State. As a human being,  you must have challenges. When those challenges come, with your belief in God, those challenges will be surmounted “, he said. Earlier,  the Archbishop of the Anglican Province of the Niger Delta,  Most Rev Tunde Adeleye said the battle is not yet over, hence Governor Wike must always remain vigilant. He said: “The devil does not have any vacuum  in his attacks. We know that quite a number of people  have come to greet you, but we have a feeling to plead with Your Excellency that the guard should not be let loose yet. “When you are winning a battle  and the people are drumming and you are dancing,  my people say look back from time to  time whether the drummers are following you or you are just hearing the sound of the drum. The battle is not complete until it is completed “. The Bishops of the Anglican Province of the Niger Delta later conducted a thanksgiving service for the victory of Governor Wike at the 2019 polls.