Rivers State Government  has reiterated its commitment to the reopening of Oil Mining License (OML) 25 for operations  with Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC), also committing to protecting the interest of host communities. This was as the  Host Communities of OML 25 also restated their developmental  concerns, while urging SPDC to address them for mutually  beneficial relationship  with the company The representative of Rivers State Governor and Secretary to the State Government,  Dr Tammy Danagogo at a meeting with the host communities and SPDC said that Rivers State Governor remains committed  to the protection  of host communities’  interest. He said: “The flow station of that facility  must be opened.  For that to happen,  we think that the interest of the host communities must be protected, so that in future  we don’t  have a repeat of what happened. “That is why it is in the best interest of everybody concerned to state very genuine concerns of what Shell has to do. He said that the Rivers State Government was discharging  its responsibility  of ensuring  a peaceful  resolution  of the issues. “At the initial  stage,  we didn’t want to get involved  because  we felt that the Shell license was almost  terminating.  But at this stage , it is clear to everybody that the Federal Government has renewed  the licence of Shell  for another 20 years.  What it means is that for the next 20 years,  Shell must be there. “As a law abiding government,  what we will do is to see that Shell does not trample upon the rights of our people and that Shell will listen to our people on what they ought to do”, he said. Danagogo  urged the communities  to do what is right, assuring that the state government  will on that premise  prevail on Shell Petroleum Development Company  to release the Global Memorandum of Understanding  on funds to host community. For his part, General Manager,  External Relations of Shell Petroleum Development Company, Mr Igo Weli, said that the SPDC was ready to dialogue with the communities  to resolve  the issues raised. He said that the existing  Global Memorandum of Understanding (GMOU), has expired, but working with the communities,  another GMOU will be worked out for the development  of the  communities. He said: “The third one is retaining for fund . The fund for each community is stipulated in the GMOU and each community will have their community trust and even though one community has a problem we can give you your money to go ahead. So once we do it properly, specify how much belongs to each community, have your own community trust, one community will not hold the other communities down. If you have a problem we localise the problem and sort out the one we can operate. That’s what we have been doing” He informed  that there is N960million on ground in line with the existing GMOU,  saying  that the company  is ready to invest  the funds.