Omodele Adigun As the race for the principal officers of the 9th National Assembly hots up, an international business group, the Nigeria Diaspora Trade & Investment Association (NDTIA), Venezuela, has thrown its weight behind   Dr Orji Uzor Kalu’s  ambition   to become the Deputy Senate President just as it equally solicited the support and approval of President Muhammadu Buhari for the Abia North  senator- elect. The group also enjoined other senators-elect from different political parties to vote for him for equity. The NDTIA President, Pastor Daniel Onovo Stanley, and Director of Culture, Kenneth Ndaji, explained in a statement  that Dr Kalu, being an honourable person with so much legislative experience, politics and international relations, would help in  taking decisions through lawmaking for the development of Nigeria. They added: “ His visit to the Republic of Venezuela helped to resolve several problems of the Nigerian community, as well as maintain contact with government authorities and heads of opposition parties who are in political conflict in Venezuela.These achievements were recorded due to his knowledge in international relations. “Members of the ninth National Assembly should take into account the Afro-descendants scattered across Latin America, and provide the needed support so they do not lose the traditions, religion and culture learned in their country of origin”. The press statement read in part: “On behalf of the Nigeria Diaspora Trade & Investment Association (NDTIA), we are giving our full support to Chief Dr Orji Uzor Kalu,  for the office of the Deputy Senate President in the 9th National Assembly, Federal Republic of Nigeria. “Nigeria Diaspora Trade & Investment Association (NDTIA), Venezuela, also requests the support and approval from the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, and other Senators elected from different political parties, to vote for Chief Dr Orji Uzor Kalu for Deputy Senate President. “Dr Orji Uzor Kalu is an honourable person with so much legislative experience, politics and international relations,  and would help in  taking decisions through lawmaking for the development of Nigeria. “ His visit to the Republic of Venezuela helped to resolve several problems of the Nigerian community, as well as maintain contact with government authorities and heads of opposition parties who are in political conflict in Venezuela.These achievements were recorded due to his knowledge in international relations. “Members of the ninth assembly should take into account the Afro-descendants scattered across in Latin America, and provide the needed support so they do not lose the traditions, religion and culture learned in their country of origin. “We are, therefore, soliciting support and vote for Chief Dr Orji Uzor Kalu for Deputy Senate President for the sake of the Nigeria Diaspora Trade & Investment Association”.