Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has commended the  State Universal Basic Education Board (RSUBEB) for diligently implementing the State School  Sports Policy, which led to the victory of Banham Model Primary  School, Port  Harcourt, during the Channels International (Under-13) Kids Football Competition. Governor Wike also announced the automatic admission for all the players at the Real Madrid Football Academy. Speaking during a reception for players and technical crew of Banham Model Primary School, Port Harcourt, winners of Channels International (Under 13) Kids Football Competition at the Government House, Port Harcourt, yesterday, governor Wike said his administration will assist the kids achieve their sporting goals. He said: “I commend the leadership of RSUBEB for implementing our goals in developing sports across all schools in the state. We are gathered here, today, because of the successful  implementation of this policy. “I, therefore, offer all the players of Banham Model Primary School Port Harcourt, automatic admission into the Real Madrid Football Academy. The Real Madrid Football Academy opens in August.” The governor said the Rivers State government will sponsor the players and their coaches to Madrid, for two weeks of training at Real Madrid Football Club. He directed the Secretary to the Rivers State government to liaise with the school management to prepare the processes for the children to travel to Spain during  the long vacation. Governor Wike charged the children to remain focused, disciplined  and work towards emerging as successful footballers in the future. “Focus on football, it will take you places. Don’t allow anyone to deceive you to join cult groups. While you are playing football, read your books. “That is why at the Real Madrid Football Academy, we have merged football and education for the training of the children,” he said. Director of Administration, RSUBEB, Mr Diminary Franklin, said the children displayed the governor’s winning spirit during the championship. He said that the state government funding of sports in schools through the provision of sports equipment and necessary funds led to the growth of sports in all schools.