Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan, with agency report Aare Ona Kakanfo Gani Adams has decried spate of insecurity in the country, blaming it on weak institution and leadership failure. This was just as he commended South West governors for organising a security summit in the region. Adams, in a statement, yesterday, said the summit was long overdue, saying the move will forestall further attacks on the region, and bring back the lost glory of the South West. Five governors, Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo), Gboyega Oyetola (Osun), Babajide Sanwoolu (Lagos), Seyi Makinde (Oyo) and the Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti) had last week held a meeting on the rising spate of insecurity in the region. Adams, who had on two occasions, written letters to the governors on the need  to organise the summit, expressed optimism at the move, pointing out that there is need to fast-track the process leading to the summit. “I must commend the efforts of the governors, it came at a time when the South West had been gripped by the activities of the herdsmen, and other social vices. The South West almost lost its peace and credibility over the consistent attacks by the killer herdsmen ravaging the region. “As far as I am concerned, I believe the move will translate to further progress, because it will further create an enabling environment for foreign investors that are interested in doing business in the region.” The Aare Ona Kakanfo, however, decried the spate of insecurity in the country, blaming the incident on weak institution and leadership failure. He explained further that as the Generalissimo of the Yoruba race, the security situation in the country has placed a huge pressure on him, particularly, from Nigerians in the Diaspora, stressing that he had met with notable groups, both within and outside the shores of Nigeria, as part of efforts made to curtail the unfortunate incident that has taken the region backward. “The spate of insecurity in the country has affected the image of Nigeria in the world, I was out of the country for 18 days and came back to Nigeria just a few days ago, but the reports reaching me from home was pathetic. The herdsmen had taken over all the entire South West, killing innocent people at will. But, now that the South West had risen to the occasion by organising the summit, I think it is a new dawn for us in the South West. It is a new dawn, because the move will definitely  bring about a new development across the region. Meanwhile, Adams and Development Agenda for Western Nigeria (DAWN) Commission have commended the South West governors for organising security summit to tackle growing insecurity  in the region. Adams and DAWN Commission gave the commendations in separate statements they issued at the weekend. The governors in the South West had last week held a meeting on the rising spate of insecurity in the zone. According to Adams, the summit was long overdue, saying the move would forestall further attacks on the region, and bring back the lost glory of the South West. Director General of the DAWN Commission, Mr. Seye Oyeleye, also enjoined security agencies in the country to double up their efforts in ending kidnapping and other security challenges that are on the rise in the region. “The spate of insecurity in the country has affected the image of Nigeria in the world. I was out of the country for 18 days and came back to Nigeria just a few days ago. But the reports reaching me from home was pathetic,” he said.