This new Estate is sprawled over 101 hectares and with over 1,500 units already occupied. Sunnyvale is located in the serene suburban Dakwo District of the FCT, Abuja, five minutes away from the Games Village. It features enviable amenities and comfort which comprises a Shopping Mall, Community Sports Centre, dedicated Police Station and a recreational building. House types are; (2) bedroom twin bungalow; (3) bedroom twin bungalow; (4) bedroom semi detached bungalow and; (4) bedroom detached duplex, all with two (2) rooms boys’ quarters. It is a gated area. This Estate is fully secured and also offers good amenities to its occupants. It is a gated neighbourhood conceived to provide a modern lifestyle with spacious living areas, functional amenities that provide maximum comfort and security to individuals, families and the discerning minds. It is simple, minimalistic in design, exciting to behold. It is located in the serene sub-urban Dakwo District of the FCT, Abuja, five minutes away from the Games Village. It features enviable amenities and comfort which comprises a Shopping Mall, Community Sports Centre, dedicated Police Station and a recreational building. The house types are: Two (2) bedroom twin bungalow, Three (3) bedroom twin bungalow, Four (4) bedroom semi-detached bungalow and Four (4) bedroom detached duplex, all with two (2) rooms boys’ quarters. Sunnyvale Gardens is a private and gated neighborhood designed in alignment with the NetConstruct mission to deliver quality living spaces, thus, our homes provide the perfect backdrop to a modern lifestyle. The estate delivers our core objective to provide contemporary and a ordable homes with spacious living areas, functional amenities and 24-hour security for residents, families and visitors alike. Situated in Kabusa Lokogoma district of Abuja, FCT; within a 3minutes drive from the Sunnyvale Homes Estate and 30 minutes away from the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Abuja. “NHF Mortgage Option avail- able @ 6% interest rate, upon contribution of 30% equity and successful prequali cation of the applicant. (Terms and conditions apply).”