Samuel Elias, 25, a final year student of Department of Religion and Culture, University of Nigeria Nsukka (UNN) has allegedly committed suicide by drinking Sniper. The mother of the deceased, Mrs Kate Elias a staff of the university, told the News agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the unfortunate incident happened on Monday June 17, around 5.30pm in her house at Justina Eze Street Nsukka. Elias said: “she came back from work on that fateful day and discovered that the mood of her first child was bad and he was staggering when he came to collect a bottle of coke from the fridge “I followed him immediately to his room and started talking to him but he could not respond and when I looked closely, I discovered that his teeth had tightened up. “As I looked around, I saw an empty sniper bottle; at this point I raised alarm and my other children rushed to the room and we tried to give him red oil but his tightened teeth did not allow the oil to enter his mouth,” she said. According to her, we immediately rushed him to Faith Foundation Hospital, Nsukka and were later referred to Bishop Shanahan Hospital, Nsukka, where he eventually died. The mother of seven said her son could have died of depression, noting that he had been lamenting of his inability to graduate from UNN because of his final year project which had been holding him. READ ALSO: Plateau stolen baby: Police parades suspect, 16 kidnappers She said also the son had not been happy how his late father’s family had abandoned them since their father died. “I know two things he usually complained, his inability to graduate from UNN since 2016 because of the project that he has not finished as his classmates have all gone for their National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). “Also, how his father’s family in Ihechiowa in Arochukwu Local Government of Abia Dtate abandoned them and their mother since their father died. “Whenever he complained of these things, I usually advised him to trust God who is capable of solving every problem. “I do not know why he will go to this extent of committing suicide, I have seven children and he was my first child. “It is still like a dream to me that my first son and first child has died,” she said in tears. Reacting to this incident, Prof. Tagbo Ugwu, the Head of Department of Religion and Culture in UNN, said somebody called him and told him about the unfortunate incident. “I received the news with shock and surprise. “I will find out from his supervisor what is wrong from the project that has stopped him from graduating,” he said. When contacted Mr Ebere Amaraizu, the Police Public Relations Office (PPRO), in Enugu State, confirmed the incident and said police would investigate the circumstances surrounding the death. “The police is aware of Samuel Elias death, a final year student of the department of Religion and Culture in UNN who committed suicide on Monday by drinking sniper. “Police will investigate circumstances surrounding the death,” he said. It would be recalled that barely five weeks after Chukwuemeka Akachi, a 400-level student of Department of English and Literary Studies in UNN ended his own life after taking a bottle of sniper. Another final year student of the institution, Mr Samuel Elias 25, from Department of Religion and Culture has also committed suicide by drinking Sniper on Monday June 17 (NAN)