From Olanrewaju Lawal, Birnin-Kebbi Federation International de Football Association (FIFA) has set aside  $1.2 million for the construction of its technical centre in Kebbi state. The centre,which would be located along Birnin-Kebbi/Kalgo road, has been allocated  4,000 metres land for by the Kebbi State government with issuance of Certificate of Occupancy . Speaking with newsmen after courtesy call on Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu on Thursday evening, FIFA Senior Development Manager in charge of Caribbean – African countries, Mr. Solomon Mudege confirmed that the project might kick off by August after ratification by the Developmental Committee of  world football council. Mudege said: “As you aware, there is approval of 1.2 million US dollars for project by the FIFA which NFF has received. So, each Federation  would decided on how to invest this fund. And NFF has decided to invest this fund on this project “. He explained that the project which might kick off on August, would comprises of artificial pitch, changing room and parameters wall to enable Kebbi football team to have second fields for their matches.    Mudege also said that the FIFA want to be sure of the safety of the project before final approval stressed that they have been assured of the project safety and NFF could use it for 40 years. “We are going back to the FIFA Developmental Committee for final approval, once it was approved,the money will be released to NFF so that they can start working on the project”. In his remark,General – Secretary of NFF,Dr.Muhammed Sanusi confirmed that the fund has been available since last year, stressed that the federation are just waiting for completion of all formalities on the project. He added that the federation would engaged competent company to execute the project along side supervisor to ensure the project do not stopped at midway Earlier, Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu while hosting the teams of FIFA  and NFF  noted that the motivation behind 1.2million US dollars is greater that than the fund,urged Kebbi United FC and youths in the state to utilize the opportunity to attain greatness in football. The Governor however presented Certificate of occupation of the land to FIFA assuring them the maximum support of the state for the completion of the project.