Reality star, Uti Nwachukwu has come under fire for declaring Cynthia Nwadioha aka Ceec, BBNaija (S3) 1st runner up the `most successful’ housemate after the show. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Uti in a viral instagram post @siruti, had declared Ceec as the most successful BBNaija (S3) housemates. Uti said, “I present to you, the most successful housemate of BBnaija 2018.” Sharing a video clip of Cee-C on his Instagram page, he wrote, “Well well well…what can say? How much louder can I shout ? How much more words can I write? “Many are called but alas, very few are chosen. Nwadiora – an igbo name meaning …Pikin wey good for the community /country…. LOL….. need I say more ? “Since winning the Show, she has received massive support and she hasn’t stopped dishing it Back to Back. The statement which did not go down well with fans of other housemates caused a lot of social media backlash. Uti also came under fire from Princess; one of Ceec’s colleagues who thought his statement on Cee C was baseless. The reality TV star also shared her displeasure via her Instagram page @IamPrincessOfficial on Wednesday. Princess former BBNaija (S3) Housemate According to her, a number of the reality TV stars who have come out of that show have faced their one issue or the other and it is unnecessary. “I felt that as a former housemate, he should know better than to outrightly quote a comparison. It’s just unnecessary. Most housemates have gone through a phase of depression, insecurity and regrets and they also have moved past it and gotten stronger. You can’t come to start this unspoken trivia now,” she wrote. Following a backlash from former housemates of BBNaija and a number of people, Uti has rephrased the success statement he made about Cee c. He said, “Alright. To those offended, calm your nerves, no games meant. When you are proud of someone, you give all of the accolades you can especially when you remember all the bashing you went through for your support. “So let me rephrase and edit: CeeC is one of the most successful housemates of BBNaija 2018.” Uti, is a television host and former Big Brother Africa winner. (NAN)