Tony John, Port Harcourt Rivers State Governor, Nyesom  Wike, has declared that the State Government would support the Train 7 project of the Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) Limited because of its potential to create about 15,000 jobs and enhance the economy of the state. Governor Wike said  Rivers people were happy that the Train 7 of the NLNG will  soon come on stream,  because  it is key to the growth of the state. He spoke  yesterday, at the Government House Port Harcourt,  during  a courtesy visit by the management of the NLNG. He said: “The Train 7 is very key to the development of Rivers State.  We are glad that it will  soon take off. I am happy  with  the  quantum of jobs that Train 7 will create in the State. “However, these jobs  should not  be  cleaners and unskilled workers.  I want the NLNG  to ensure that qualified  Rivers people are employed  when the Train 7 comes on stream”. The governor  stated that the government and people of the  state would support  the successful  take off of the Train 7. He commended  the management of the NLNG for  initiating the Community  Health Insurance Scheme for Bonny Island,  saying that the State government  would partner  with the company  to achieve the objectives  of the programme. On the project  initiated  by the NLNG  to supply cooking gas directly  to the State,  instead of passing through Lagos, Governor Wike assured that the Rivers Government would dredge the Iwofe waterway  for that purpose. “I will only support  companies  that mean well for the people of Rivers State.  My business  is to do good for our people, so that their lives can improve. “Other companies  should emulate what NLNG  is  doing in Rivers State.  On behalf  of the people of Rivers State,  I commend  the NLNG “, he said. Governor Wike also commended the NLNG for  establishing  their headquarters in the State and also working to eradicate malaria. Earlier,  the Managing Director of NLNG,  Tony Attah, prayed that the second  term  of Governor Wike would be more rewarding  for the people of state. He thanked the governor for his contribution to the development of NLNG Limited, adding that the NLNG  was  set to kick off the Train 7 where it is expected to spend between  $6 billion  and $7 billion USD by way of investment. “The employment side of the Train 7 is that it will create about 10 to 15 thousand jobs for the people of the state. It will build the skills and  capacity of the people. The final investment decision will be taken in October”.