Christian Agadibe The Redeemed Christian Church of God, Throne Room, Abuja, in collaboration with Community Transformation Empowerment (CTE) at the weekend, at Kuduru community in Bwari Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory, rendered free medical services to hundreds of the residents of the community. The outreach saw residents receiving free testing, counselling and drugs. Addressing newsmen during the event, the assistant pastor of the RCCG, Throne Room Parish, Rev Emmanuel Mulero, stated that the parish embarked on the outreach to help members of the community who could not afford some medical services at health centres. He said: “It was the decision of the parish to do things that will affect our immediate communities. We decided to go into medical outreach at the suburbs to reach out to the rural people. “We estimate that more than 500 residents will benefit from the exercise. We also call on well-meaning citizens and organisations to embark on similar outreaches to better the lots of the needy. “The aim of the programme was to show love to the less privileged in society. We have visited several communities in the FCT to provide them with some basic facilities they lack. The programme is not just for Christians but for all that live in the community. We don’t discriminate among the people. Jesus is for everyone, so we attend to all that have gathered here today. “Some major health matters will be referred for specialist attention. We have our ambulance to take such person or persons to the hospital that can handle such cases, with all the bills paid by the Throne Room parish.” The beneficiaries expressed joy over the intervention, and called on other people and organisations to emulate the church. One of them, Mrs. Chinyere Uchendu, commended the church for saving her from her ailment. In her words, “this is more than the medical outreaches people have been doing here. They checked my blood pressure, took my blood sample, and gave me drugs and food. If I had gone to the hospital, I would spend more than N30,000, but today I got everything for free. Medical doctors, dieticians, optometrists and laboratory technicians were part of the team that participated in the outreach. 