Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja The Federal Government has urged Nigerians among the 80 persons indicted by the United States for massive email fraud and money laundering that are in the country to turn themselves in voluntarily or be arrested and extradited. The Chairman/CEO of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Abike Dabiri-Erewa, who expressed sadness over the development in a statement, expressed hope that they will be given fair hearing. She said her Commission is deeply concerned about the news of the court indictment of 80 persons, mainly Nigerians, in parts of the U.S. She noted that out of the indicted 80 persons, Valentine Iro, Chukwudi Christogunis Igbokwe and Obinwanne Okeke are principal suspects who had earlier been arrested in the U.S. “We acknowledge the fact that accusation does not mean guilt, and we hope that all the accused will be given fair and speedy trial. We also ask those accused in Nigeria to voluntarily turn themselves in, to American authorities to clear their names, without which the Nigerian government should extradite them if relevant international treaties between the two governments are invoked. “While such actions ultimately have negative effect on the image of the country, the Commission however reiterates as it has always done, that the actions of a few Nigerians involved in criminal activities is not and can never be what the majority of Nigerians represent. “We advise and we continuously resist any stereotyping of Nigeria and Nigerians generally. The Commission will continue to monitor the case closely”, the government stated. The U.S Department of Justice on Thursday issued a statement detailing the indictment and arrest of some suspects mostly Nigerians in multi-million dollar fraud probe. According to the statement, “The indictment was unsealed after law enforcement authorities this morning (Thursday) arrested 14 defendants across the United States, with 11 of those arrests taking place in the Los Angeles region. Two defendants were already in federal custody on other charges, and one was arrested earlier this week. The remaining defendants are believed to be abroad, with most them located in Nigeria. “The indictment alleges that the 80 defendants and others used various online fraud schemes – including business email compromise (BEC) frauds, romance scams, and schemes targeting the elderly – to defraud victims out of millions of dollars. According to a criminal complaint also unsealed today, co-conspirators based in Nigeria, the United States and other countries contacted the lead defendants in the indictment – Valentine Iro, 31, of Carson, and Chukwudi Christogunus Igbokwe, 38, of Gardena, both Nigerian citizens – for bank and money-service accounts that could receive funds fraudulently obtained from victims. Once members of the conspiracy convinced victims to send money under false pretenses, Iro and Igbokwe coordinated the receipt of funds and oversaw an extensive money-laundering network, according to the 145-page indictment. “The indictment and criminal complaint allege that Iro and Igbokwe, who were among those arrested this morning, were involved in schemes resulting in the fraudulent transfer of at least $6 million in fraudulently-obtained funds – and the overall conspiracy was responsible for the attempted theft of at least an additional $40 million. Each of the 80 defendants named in the indictment is charged with conspiracy to commit fraud, conspiracy to launder money, and aggravated identity theft. A number of the defendants also face substantive fraud and money laundering charges. “Additionally, Iro, Igbokwe, Ikogho, Ogungbe and three other defendants –Izuchukwu Kingsley Umejesi, 30, of Los Angeles, Tityaye Marina Mansbangura, 33, of Palmdale, and Obi Madekwe, 31, of Nigeria – are charged with operating illegal money transmitting businesses. Ogungbe and Mansbangura were also among those arrested this morning, and Umejesi is a fugitive currently being sought by authorities.”  Below is a full list of the defendants named in the Fbi indictment 1. Valentine Iro, 2. Chukwudi Chri Stogunus   Igbokwe 3. Jerry Elo Ikogho 4. Izuchukwu Kingsley Umejesi 5. Adegoke Moses Ogungbe 6. Albert Lewis Cathey 7. Tityaye Marina Mansbangura 8. Chukwudi Collins Ajaeze 9. Ekene Augustine Ekechukwu 10. Chuks Eroha 11. Collins Nnaemeka Ojimba 12. Fnu Lnu 13. Uchenna Ochiagha 14. Nnamdi Theojoseph Duru 15. Ericson Uche Oforka 16. Mark Ifeanyi  Chukwuocha 17. Augustine Nnamdi 18. Chiemezie Christopher Chilaka 19. Charles Ohajimkpo 20. Stanley Ugochukwu Uche 21. Chika Augustine Odionyenma 22. Paschal Chima Ogbonna 23. Samuel Nnamdi Onwuasoanya 24. Macwilliam Chinonso Chukwuocha 25. Emmanuel Onyeka Uzoka, 26. Joshua Aniefiok Awak 27. George Ugochukwu Egwumba 28. Uchechukwu Solomon Ezirim 29. Augustine Ifeanyi Okafor 30. Fnu Lnu 31. Ogochukwu Innocent Ikewesi 32. Emmanuel Uzoma Ogandu 33. Amarachukwu Harley Anyanwu 34. Bright Ifeanyi Azubuike 35. Emeka Moses Nwachukwu 36. Chinwendu Kenneth Osuji, 37. Eusebius Ugochukwu Onyeka 38. Chidi Anunobi 39. Anthony Nwabunwanne Okolo 40. Obinna Christian Onuwa 41. Chijioke Chukwuma Isamade 42. Linus Nnamdi Madufor 43. Chrysaugonus Nnebedum, 44. Ugochukwu Okereke 45. Fidel Leon Odimara 46. Kingsley Chinedu Onudorogu 47. Dessi Nzenwah 48. Chimaroke Obasi 49. James Chigozie Agube 50. Chimaobi Uzozie Okorie 51. Ogochukwu Ohiri 52. Kennedy Chibueze Ugwu 53. Ifeanyichukwu Oluwadamilare Agwuegbo 54. Victor Ifeanyi Chukwu 55. Chidi Emmanuel Megwa 56. Princewill Arinze Duru 57. Desmond Iwu 58. Onyeka Vincent Chika 59. Ifeanyi Kingsley Mezienwa 60. Victor Uchenna Aguh 61. Kevin Amarachi Eshimbu 62. Vitalis Kelechi Anozie 63. Williams Obiora Agunwa 64. George Chimezie Dike 65. Munachiso Kyrian Ukachukwu 66. Nwannebuike Osmund 67. Chidiebere Franklin Nwangwu 68. Damian Uchechukwu Ajah 69. Emeka P. Ejiofor 70. Lawrence Chukwuma Ubasineke 71. Chinedu Bright Ibeto 72. Valentine Amarachi Nwanegwo 73. Emmanuel Chidiebere Dike 74. Jeremiah Utieyin Eki 75. Chima Darlington Duru 76. Ikenna Christian Ihejiureme 77. Obi Onyedika Madekwe