The Director General, National Council for Arts and Culture, Otunba Segun Runsewe has thrown his weight behind Lagos government decision to fish out those behind the Lekki public naked dance, saying the show negates the beauty of Nigerian culture and way of life. Runsewe who has zero tolerance for attitudes and culture unbecoming of well bred Nigerian youngsters, described the Lekki public show as unacceptable, and an aberration against Nigerian culture which must be condemned and wholly rejected by Nigerians from all works of life. The NCAC boss whose major forte is to reposition the true gains and pictures of Nigeria’s diverse cultural history and impact, noted that the Lekki debacle must be used as an example to officially clamp down on promoters and influencers of strange entertainment from the pit of hell, adding that Nigeria will never succumb to imported cultural pastime or to blackmail, tailored to destroy centuries old and rich Nigerian culture. “This dizzying madness can’t and would not be allowed to turn Nigeria into a destination for sex and illicit drugs tourism. Enough is enough, and for God’s sake where is this coming from?” Runsewe asked. Alluding to various reports and calls to his office on certain alleged offences against Nigerian culture promoted by a pay TV station, the hardworking culture exponent who also doubles as Africa president of World Craft Council, disclosed that his office was investigating the allegation against the television network and would work with relevant government agencies to find lasting solutions to any foreign cultural infractions and subtle attempts to colonise the minds of Nigerian youngsters. He called on traditional rulers to join hands with government to checkmate the open rage and rape against Nigerian culture with possible consequences of the unimaginable. “In Nigeria, we love and respect our mothers and sisters, women in general and therefore we will not condone deliberate actions that would betray the values of our culture and make our heroes past to turn angrily in their graves,” Runsewe lamented. Runsewe also sent a strong message to state governors to create and empower agencies and departments of culture to arrest the organised assault against established and respected Nigerian way of life, adding that we should be proudly Nigerian and resist vigorously, attempts to insult the Nigerian women.