Fred Itua, Abuja The Tiv Youth Council has called on security agencies to investigate the alleged involvement of Governor Darius Ishaku in the Julian/Tiv crisis in Taraba State. In a statement released by the national president of the council, Mr Mike Chivir Msuaan, the group said the Tiv nation “cannot continue being cannon fodder for the unity of the country.” In the press statement, Msuaan said: “The Tiv Youth Council like all concerned patriots has watched with patriotic pain and disenchantment the persistent wars between the Tivs and the Jukuns in Taraba State which have intensified lately. “A cursory assessment will reveal that hundreds of  lives have been lost within a short period while property worth millions of naira have been wantonly destroyed. “The recent rape, maiming and killing of hepless Tiv Students and staff of the Federal University Wukari is indeed one too many, deserving  thorough investigation by the security agencies and enduring solutions to entrench peace. “The Jukun militia has remained irrepressibly resurgent, consistently coming up with sophisticated weapons, dreaded attack techniques and in several instances kitted as men of the Nigerian Army. “Our incontrovertible findings from this painstaking inquest revealed  powerful individuals with political leanings funding, training and arming the Jukun militia. “Principally, the Governor of Taraba State, Mr Darius Ishaku, has remained silent. This has provided cover for the Jukun militia, while also playing the ostrich, instead of addressing the matter as chief security officer of the state. “Their prime objectives aside ethnic dominance is to stir dissent against the government by raising the tempo of war to an Inferno’s pitch, thereby fuelling national insecurity for political gains just to paint the President Muhammadu Buhari government in negative light. “We, herein, particularly invite the relevant security agencies to immediately proceed with a thorough investigation of Governor Darius Ishaku in the interest of peace. “We strongly believe the Tivs and Jukuns can harmoniously live in peace as has been in the past if these political masterminds fuelling the war are isolated and dealt with.” Governor Ishaku has however dismissed their claims. Spokesman to the Governor Bala Dan Abu in a chat with Daily Sun said the accusations are unfounded. He insisted that Governor Ishaku was doing everything within his power and in partnership with his colleague from Benue State to find lasting solutions to the crisis in the two two states. “Governor Ishaku has held series of meetings with the two sides and he has called on them to allow peace to reign. He has held about four meetings already. It is wrong to accuse him of anything by anyone,” the Governor’s spokesman said