Uche Usim, Abuja Plans to resume full-scale search for hydrocarbon deposits in the Chad basin, Gongola and Benue trough are currently being fine-tuned by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and the Nigerian military. The collaboration is to guarantee sufficient military support for the protection of NNPC’s workforce and its high-tech equipment to be used for the search. Group Managing Director of the NNPC, Mele Kyari, made the disclosure when he led top management of the NNPC on a visit to the Chief of Defence Staff, General Gabriel Olonisakin, at his office in Abuja on Tuesday. According to him, security challenges in the Chad Basin, Gongola and Benue Trough, had robbed the NNPC the chance to mobilise fully to those areas of its important operations. He said: “I’m visiting the Chief of Defence Staff as my first port of call following my appointment to seek for the support of the Armed Forces to help the NNPC in re-entering the Chad Basin, Gongola and Benue Trough to enable us carry out our mandate for national development. Your support in terms of providing full security cover for our staff and equipment is critical to us.” He added that the Corporation equally required the military to intensify efforts in the protection of its pipelines and Right of Way (RoW) across the nooks and crannies of Nigeria. Kyari stated that the NNPC was seriously challenged due to the nefarious activities of pipeline vandals, petroleum products thieves and other economic saboteurs that breach the operations of NNPC in various parts of the country. The GMD recounted the significance of NNPC’s contributions to the national economy, noting that its synergy with the Military was critical to the wellbeing of the nation’s economy. Responding, the CDS, General Olonisakin, described the NNPC as a strategic Corporation that would be given full military support to enable it deliver on its mandate to the Nigerian people. “It is imperative for the Armed Forces and the NNPC to collaborate and synergise for the benefit of the country going by itsvarious strategic roles to the nation. The Armed Forces operations, code named: Operation Wase and Operations Delta Safe, along with other operations, were geared towards protecting pipelines and various oil and gas facilities,” General Olanisakin averred. He said the military and the NNPC had been working together and that the visit of the GMD would further bolster the various operations to secure the oil and gas installations, adding that the Military had devised several strategies to stem the tide of pipeline breaches in the country.