Bamigbola Gbolagunte, Akure Ondo State Executive Council yesterday formally ratified the appointment of Prince Ajibade Gbadegesin Ogunoye as the new Olowo of Owo in Owo Local Government Area of the state. The approval followed Ogunoye’s selection as the Olowo of Owo by the kingmakers of the town and senior Omo olowo who were responsible for the selection of traditional ruler in the town. Ogunoye had emerged the Olowo elect, having polled the highest number of votes during an election held among the kingmakers and senior omo Olowos. At the State Executive Council meeting presided over by Governor Akeredolu, the state government ratified Ogunoye’s appointment. The state commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr Donald Ojogo who briefed Journalists after the meeting said the state government appreciates authorities of Owo Local Government Area and the Senior Omolowos for the peaceful process and procedures leading to the emergence of the new monarch. Ojogo said: “One of the key issues that was discussed at council meeting wass the issue of the Olowo of Owo. You will recall that the Olowo stool is a grade A stool and recognised by government  under the Chiefs law of 1984. “The stool became vacant after the demise of Oba Victor Folagbade Olateru Olagbegi and as expected, the selection process commenced and it followed due process and today, the climax of the process was brought to the council by the commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs. “It is  with gratitude to God and profound thanks to the Local Government and the Senior Omolowos that Council today, gave approval for the selection and final ratification of Prince Ogunoye Ajibade as the new Olowo of Owo kingdom. “The thrust of the process is that Prince Ogunoye is now the Olowo-elect as graciously approved by the State Executive Council. You will recall that Olowo stool is among the prominent ones we have, not only in Ondo State, but in the entire South West “I have the approval of the governor  to thank the senior Omolowos for the selection and final ratification of the Olowo Elect. This is the final process for the selection and appointment of the new Olowo. There are no legal encumbrances since the ministry of justice has also cleared it.” The government spokesperson also disclosed that the state government has effected the upgrading of Chief Beniah Adeola Idiogbe from Olojaof Aboto to the position of Alaboto of Aboto in Ilaje local government area of the state. He said the request for the upgrade has been approved by the State Executive Council twelve years ago, adding that the present government came in and decided to effect the upgrade. The information commissioner said: “Another issue that council looked at was the traditional stool of Alaboto of Aboto. This is not a new process. The process had been approved almost 12 years ago (2007). An
existing Oloja of Aboto has been upgraded to the stool of Alaboto of Aboto. “In other words, Council  has approved the elevation of Chief Beniah Adeola Idiogbe from the position of Oloja of Aboto to Alaboto of Aboto. “It’s not a new one. One or two administrative encumbrances had delayed the pronouncement. We met it on ground and we felt justice must be done. It’s not a fresh process. Council gave approval since
2007, but it wasn’t effected,” the commissioner added.