Tony John, Port Harcourt Less than 24 hours after Rivers State Government placed a N30million bounty on notorious cultist, Bobrisky of Gokana, the Nigerian Army has captured him, even as Governor Nyesom Wike confirmed that he will redeem the pledge. Speaking during a security meeting with leaders of Rumuolumeni community at the Government House Port Harcourt on Friday, Governor Wike thanked the Nigerian Army for capturing the suspected cultist. “The Army has captured Bobrisky of Gokana.  I will pay the bounty that I promised to the Nigerian Army. Anyone who  generates insecurity in Rivers State, I am ready to pay any amount to ensure the arrest of that person”. Governor Wike called on community leaders  to supply information  to the State Security council on criminals in their communities  for the security agencies to act frontally  to reduce crime. He described Rumuolumeni as one of the flashpoints in the state, where criminals use the waterway as a getaway point.  He urged community leaders to cooperate with the State Government to check the activities of cult groups and insecurity  in the area. The governor assured the people of the area that key roads in the community will be constructed by his administration.  He said by the end of the month, contractors  will be mobilised  to commence work on the selected roads. “Key roads in the area have been primed for construction.  I urge you  to have confidence  in us that we will  continue to develop the area “, he said. He reiterated the proscription of youth groups in the state, adding that any youth body that plans to operate,  must  first be profiled. Also speaking, Commissioner of Police in the State, Mustapha Dandaura said almost all communities have been overrun by cultists.  He said security agencies cannot watch the situation degenerate. He commended  the governor for donating vehicles  to the security agencies to fight crime, assuring that they  will  intensify the battle against crime to achieve  results. Spokesman of the Rumuolumeni community, Collins Wagbara expressed happiness that Governor Wike has commenced the process of constructing key roads in the area. He also lauded the governor for upgrading a major secondary school  in the area. Wagbara assured that the community is working with security agencies for the restoration of peace in the area.