The Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Malam Mele Kyari, has urged members of the Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) to join effort to keep the corporation in check for transparency and accountability. Kyari gave the charge when a delegation of the Guild led by its president, Ms Funke Egbemode, paid him a courtesy visit in Abuja, yesterday. He  said that the major focus of his administration was to ensure transparency and accountability in the operations of the corporation. According to him, ensuring accountability and transparency is not only the work of the corporation. “As journalists, you help in shaping policies, we are honoured that you have come to visit us and that is why all our management staff are here to welcome you. “You are all aware of the challenges with the operation of the corporation, but we have promised to be transparent. “Already NNPC is seen not to be accountable, you have the duty to make us to be accountable. “You must make sure that we do the work the way it should be, because all of us are stakeholders in the nation’s oil company. “Hold us accountable by your work and support us  in the effort of ensuring accountability and transparency,” he said. Kyari further charged the Guild to always contact the corporation to get appropriate and correct information for factual reportage. Commenting of effort to grow the nation’s oil reserve, he called on the Guild to help to ensure the passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) which had lingered since 1999. He added that appropriate legislation was imperatives  to achieve  accountability and transparency for economic growth and development in the country. He noted that concerted efforts were being made to ensure that the nation’s refineries were up and running. Egbemode congratulated Kyari on his appointment and described it  as well deserved one being a thorough professional. She said that major aim of the visit was to partner the corporation as the biggest enabler of the nation’s economy.