Director-General of the Progressive Governors Forum, Salihu Lukman, has launched an attack on the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, and other leaders, who he accused of failing to discharge their responsibilities. In a letter titled “APC: Appeal for Reconciliation,” dated August 6, he questioned the capacity of the former labour leader to lead the ruling party. He cited the woeful outing of the party in the just last February and March elections in some states, the suspension of some key members, and possibility of defeat in the coming elections in some states. “My distant observation is that there is hardly any difference between your approach in managing the party and the way Chief Oyegun had managed it during his tenure. Instead, things have really got worse and painfully, it would appear, you are in denial of this reality.” A member of the APC National Working Committee (NWC), said the national leadership of the party will not make any official statement on the letter since it is a personal one addressed to the national chairman. “It will be unfair demanding for any reaction from the national leadership on a personal letter written to our national chairman. The best person to react should be himself or his CPS,” he quipped. However, efforts, which included telephone calls and text messages to get  the reaction of Oshiomhole or his Chief Press Secretary, Simon Ebegbulem,  proved abortive. He did not only fail to pick several telephone calls put accross to him but also refused to respond to text message sent to him. The sms  read: “Sir, we need your reaction on the letter from the DG Progressives Governors Forum to your principal.” Among the issues raised in the letter is the alleged inability of the party leadership to take advice from party loyalists and the delay in convening meetings of the superior organs of the party, most especially the National Executive Council (NEC) and National Caucus to curb further crisis within party “Kindly recall that sometime in June this year (2019),  I sent what I called a Private Memo on the issues of reported disciplinary actions against Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State by the National Working Committee (NWC). “Of course, the Memo noted that before the 2019 elections, the NWC had similarly suspended former Governors Rochas Okorocha and lbikunle Amosun of Imo and Ogun states respectively. Between June and now, Sen. Lawal Shuaibu, APC Deputy National Chairman, North and Alh. Inuwa Abdulkadir, APC Vice National Chairman, North West have also been similarly suspended,” he said. He said if the problems in the party are not properly managed they may bring the party on its knees and therefore give an edge to the leading opposition party, PDP. “We had challenges that deprived our party the opportunity to contest 2019 election in Rivers, stripped our party of electoral victory in Zamfara, engendered highest levels of leadership animosities in Imo, Ogun, Adamawa, Bauchi, Kano, Ondo, Oyo, etc. Today, with Kogi and Edo elections approaching similar leadership animosities are defining political life of the party in those states. “Since emerging as the National Chairman of our party, I have had cause to review decisions and actions you have taken as the National Chairman and often I have difficulty reconciling many of the decisions and actions you took with the leadership standards you upheld. “It is a painful reality that we have found ourselves in situation of near stalemate in many states under your leadership. Embarrassingly, our leaders, including your very self, appear to be stubbornly inconsiderate of other options of resolving these challenges. “If the electoral loss of Oyo, Imo, Zamfara, Adamawa and Bauchi are not a wakeup call to the dangers that lie ahead, what could have been! Is it that our leaders are indifferent to the possible return of People’s Democratic Party (PDP)?” he queried. The Progressive Governors Forum DG added: “In all my years of association with you, I never imagine that one day you will be so comfortable as to be indifferent to challenges that could threaten our national democratic development.”