‘I know the world is bruised and bleeding, and although it is important not to ignore its pain, it is also critical to refuse to succumb to its malevolence. Like failure, chaos contains information that can lead to knowledge – Even wisdom’. You spoke to us so many times in hundreds of ways Words that warmed our souls and sometimes chilled our bones Your voice was always clear and true Even when many doubted its depth and misunderstood its meaning Year after year your piercing gaze missed nothing And you slowly but surely peeled away the arrogance of dominance Replacing it with a simple truth – the right to be. The right to be present The right to be heard The right to remember The right to fail The right to succeed Now at a time when our world is bruised and bleeding And the pain is almost unbearable You leave us to grope our way through You spoke about malevolence Yes, there is so much of that around, we can barely breathe. We are not safe anywhere anymore We struggle for meaning with all the desperation and meanness around us A ten-year old girl is a mother A mother locks up her son with dogs Dogs eat the bodies of those left to the dogs Crazed demons hunt and gun us down Boundaries and borders make no difference Satan has a penchant for global real estate You told us that if we want to fly, we should give up the s..t that weighs us down There is so much s..t, so flying is not an option right now Perhaps we can settle for crawling while we clean up the s..t bit by bit We are failing sister Toni Failing at being human Failing at being heard Failing at loving Failing at living Yet you told us that there is knowledge to be found in failure You stayed long enough to share your wisdom Yet we need more lifetimes of knowing The chaos you spoke of might be our redemption Yet not in the ways the brash and the excitable might think Chaos on the streets means rivers of red The blood of the innocent and bodies of the blameless You taught us to be fearless as we stood in our truths You admonished us to be fearful of those who would gag and bind us Your life’s work has been a revolution that spoke to our minds, souls and spirits As you leave us, perhaps we will think more about the revolution we truly need A permanent, bloodless, timeless revolution One that carries through the air from generation to generation A life of meaning A life of service A life of truth A life of teaching A life of giving A life of freedom The kind of life that you lived The life of a true revolutionary And when we are free in however we define freedom You told us, ‘If you are free, you need to free someone else. If you have some power, then your job is to empower somebody else’. As you surrender to the air and fly with it Thank you for leaving us with these clues to wisdom. Rest in peace dear Sister Toni Please give our love to Maya Angelou. •Bisi Adeleye-Fayemi is a gender specialist, social entrepreneur and writer. She is the founder of Abovewhispers.com, an online community for women. She can be reached at BAF@abovewhispers.com