Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) have commended Ebonyi Governor, Chief Dave Umahi for a peaceful conduct of the party’s ward congress across the 105 wards in the state.  A chieftain of the PDP in the state, Daniel Iworiso-Markson who took part in the exercise in his Ward 11 Opume community in Ogbia local government area said the reports from all other wards in the state also indicated that the congress was peaceful and without any form of manipulation.  Iworiso- Markson who is head media and publicity of the Restoration Governorship primaries committee  commended the Governor Dave Umahi led committee for ensuring that the process was transparent, fair and credible and also thanked officials of INEC who were on ground to monitor the ward delegate congress.  “I want to commend the PDP national team from Abuja led by Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State who worked so hard to ensure we have a peaceful congress today. I also commend members of our party for their conduct and officials of INEC.  “Just few days ago, I issued a statement to say that the governorship primary will be peacful and today that process has started and we hope that it will continue and climax with victory for our party on November 16, 2019”.  Iworiso-Markson also congratulated Williams Adike, Joy Otobo and Johnbull Azibataman on their emergence as delegates from ward 11 that will vote in the September 3 governorship primary.  On his part, the leader of the INEC team that monitored the ward 11 election in Ogbia, Mr. Joseph Omiloli said he saw democracy at its best in the ward election and urged members of the PDP to sustain the peaceful attitude as they move towards electing a candidate to fly their flag in the governorship poll.  Earlier, the PDP national committee for the ward congress led by the governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi had set up  a 3 man electoral committee in each of the 105 wards to conduct the ad-hoc delegates election.  According to Umahi, it was the right thing to do in order for the party to enable a level playing ground for all members, adding that the election of ad-hoc delegates was in the interest of the party ahead of the primary and the governorship election.  He advised members of the party to desist from violence and praised Governor Seriake Dickson for his magnanimity and the quality of his leadership style which has transformed the state for good.  Meanwhile the returning electoral officer for Sagbama ward 10, Mr. Dimie Peres Jonah has declared Adesi Timi, Zine Obiokpo Zine and Ogodo Edesemi Raphael Morientes as winners of the ad-hoc delegates’ election in that ward. 