Anthony Joshua has convinced fans he looks like “a boxer instead of a bodybuilder model” after the heavyweight showed off a slender new look. The 6ft 6in Watford ace shared a picture on his Snapchat looking visibly lighter in muscle compared to his frame two months ago prior to Andy Ruiz Jr’s shock win over the Brit star. Fans online were quick to notice AJ’s new transformation, with some suggesting the former world champion is built more like a boxer – opposed to a “bodybuilder Instagram model”. One said: “Looks like he’s lost a lot of muscle.” Another said: “He is looking like a boxer now instead of a bodybuilder Instagram model.” One commented: “He’s gotta have lost at least 15kg of muscle since his weigh in for the Ruiz Jr fight. Looks like a boxer now instead of a power lifter.” Having suffered a disastrous US debut in June, being floored four times in a seventh round stoppage defeat to 25-1 outsider Ruiz, AJ will get his shot at redemption in December. But the rematch is reportedly heading to Saudi Arabia on December 7, after the champion expressed concerns in coming to the UK to defend his belts. The bizarre neutral venue is said to be worth £70million between the two heavyweights, with Jeddah recently staging Amir Khan’s recent KO win against Billy Dib – netting him £7m. Having tasted defeat in the pro ranks for the first time Joshua is hellbent on becoming a two-time world champion – and insisted Ruiz flash in the pan victory cannot be repeated. He said: “If you put me and Ruiz in a machine, nine times out of ten I should beat him. “That was just his night. He got the win and we get to do it again at the end of the year. “I’ve taken Ls. I know how to fight and I know I’ll beat most of these top heavyweights. “The day I stop is the day they shouldn’t fear me. But until then, just know I’m knocking on everyone’s door and I’m coming. I’ve done it once, I can do it again. “I’ve won, I’ve unified the division twice, become heavyweight champion. I’ve been put on my back, I’ve lost. I’m an experienced fighter, so we’ll see what more I have to give.” AJ has already began his training preparations for what could be a career defining night in December. But with the 2012 Olympic gold medalist slimmer in build, he may have been forced to trim out his usual 4,000 and 5,000 calories a day diet. The basis of his diet includes five eggs in the morning, among other food, two chicken breasts – the size of four regular ones – at lunch and two fillet steaks at dinner.