Noah Ebije, Kaduna Gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen on Saturday attacked Nandu-Gbok village in Sanga Local Government Area (LGA) of Kaduna State, killing no fewer than 10 persons. Also, the bandits reportedly burned down no fewer than 30 houses. Recall that a similar incident happened last week in Kajuru LGA of the state, where 17 persons were killed and several houses set ablaze. Member representing Jema’a/Sanga Federal Constituency, Nicholas Garba, in a statement signed and issued to journalists said, “about 10 bodies have been recovered and about 30 houses confirmed burnt down.” “The latest attack is coming while we are mourning and trying to deal with the devastating massacre wrought on the Adara people. This has once again brought to the fore the plight of the indigenous people of Southern Kaduna. “The Chairman of the LG council and other stakeholders are assessing and trying to deal with the unfortunate situation,” he said. Garba condoled with the families of the victims and called for calm. “I am appealing to our communities to remain calm and not to contemplate any reprisal actions.  Meanwhile, I am appealing to the security agencies in our state to reinforce their presence in Sanga especially in the affected community with the aim of stopping further attack and fishing out the perpetrators of this heinous crime,” he added. Meanwhile, Governor Nasir el-Rufai, through a statement signed by the spokesman, Samuel Aruwan, has condemned the killings. The governor, who confirmed that nine persons were killed in the attack, commiserated with the survivors and the families of the victims. The statement read: “The Kaduna State government has been briefed by the security agencies on the killing of nine persons by criminal elements who attacked Nandu village in Sanga LGA in the early hours of today. “The security agencies have so far recovered nine corpses, including children. The attackers also burnt several houses in the village. The government condemns this attack on the lives and security of citizens and appeals to our communities to resist those who do not want peace. “The governor, on behalf of the government and people of Kaduna State, commiserates with the families of the victims and prays for the repose of their souls. “Government, security agencies, traditional and religious institutions will continue to work towards sustainable peace. In this moment of grief, we must come together to defeat the machinations of those who have no notion of respect for the lives of others. “Violence has left an unacceptable toll of death and injury, loss of livelihoods, pain and fear. We must overcome this by respecting our common humanity, settling differences peacefully and promptly reporting threats and suspicions to the appropriate authorities. Evil will never triumph over our common humanity. “Security agencies have been deployed in the area, and the State Emergency Management Agency has been directed to immediately provide relief materials to the affected community.” 