Tunde Omolehin, Sokoto The state leader of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Sokoto State, Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko, has urged party members and supporters of his party in the state to remain peaceful, resolute and calm in the aftermath of the just-concluded gubernatorial election in the state. In a statement signed by his Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Bashir, Rabe Mani, the senator while reacting to the poll’s outcome said the party’s leadership, membership and the entire electorate in the state should not despair in anyway. “We have jointly struggled, fought and won. We are never losers. All and sundry have done their possible best, by coming out en masse and massively casting their invaluable votes for our candidates, at all levels. “In this direction, we are really appreciating and cherishing the immense and sustained support of the members of the party to beat, the APC, as well as the electorate, in general. “These laudable gestures of the electorate were kick started with the presidential and National Assembly polls, then during the first gubernatorial and state Assembly elections and climaxed with the supplementary polls on March 23.” Wamakko noted that, the candidates of the party had recorded a myriad of landslide victories during the 2019 general polls sequel to the unflinching loyalty and unshakeable devotion by its supporters and the electorate. He further promised that, the APC and its leaders, at all levels, would remain religiously committed to the welfare, security and general comfort of Nigerians. These, he noted, form part of the cardinal ideals and objectives of the party, vowing that, Nigerians would never regret bestowing their mandates to the APC. “Our leader, President Muhammadu Buhari, was just given a second term by Nigerians and he will surely take the entire country to the next level. “The leaders of the party, at all levels, most especially the Ninth Senate, would relentlessly strive to fully complement the efforts of the president to better the lives of Nigerians in all ramifications. “The leadership and membership of the party, as well as the entire Nigerians should continue to be peaceful and united.”