Romanus Ugwu, Abuja The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has ordered an immediate suspension of all electoral processes in the yet to be concluded Rivers State governorship and House of Assembly elections, citing widespread disruption of electoral activities as the reason. National Commissioner and Chairman Information and Voter Education, Festus Okoye, in a statement, lamented that initial reports available to the commission suggested that violence occurred in a substantial number of polling units and collation centres, adding that staff had been taken hostage and materials including result sheets had either been seized or destroyed by unauthorised persons. While quoting Section 26 of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended) and Clause 47(e) of the Regulations and Guidelines of the Commission which empowered the commission to suspend election, INEC revealed that it had set up a fact-finding committee to appraise the situation and report back to the leadership of the commission within 48 hours. According to the statement: “Based on reports from our officials in the field, INEC has determined that there has been widespread disruption of elections conducted on the March 9, 2019 in Rivers State. “These initial reports suggest that violence occurred in a substantial number of polling units and collation centres; staff have been taken hostage and materials including result sheets have either been seized or destroyed by unauthorised persons. “In addition, safety of our staff appears to be in jeopardy all over the state and the commission is concerned about the credibility of the process. “Consequently, at a meeting held March 10, 2019, the commission has decided to suspend all electoral processes in the state until further notice. This is in line with Section 26 of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended) and Clause 47(e) of the Regulations and Guidelines of the Commission. “The commission has also established a fact-finding committee to assess the situation and report back within 48 hours. We appeal to the people of Rivers State, particularly the voters, for their understanding as we look into the circumstances of these disruptions and what further action needs to be taken,” the statement from the commission read.