Mr. Peter Obi, running mate to the PDP presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, in the just concluded presidential elections, has explained why the outcome of the poll would be challenged in court. He said as law-abiding citizens, the PDP as a party, its presidential candidate and himself, had decided to go to court because of their belief in the rule of law. “Though elections give citizens a means to hold their leaders accountable by voting incumbents out of office or promising to hold to account those leaders successfully elected, the process is more important than the outcome as the rule of law must always prevail. Thus, the consequences of Nigeria without rule of law will be unimaginable chaos and tyranny,” Obi stated. The former Anambra State governor who expressed confidence in the judiciary, said he appreciated the intervention of well-meaning Nigerians on the issue. However, concerning those that advised against going to court, Obi said the dilemma of Nigeria was allowing impunity to go unchallenged. “Besides putting a stop to impunity”, Obi said, “such a challenge will also go a long way in strengthening the electoral processes and in guarding against repetition of such dastardly acts in future. Obi who recalled how he had been on the route before, called on Nigerians to have faith in the judiciary as the last hope of a common man. Obi said he was touched by the eagerness with which Nigerians came out to fulfill their civic duties of voting. He thanked especially the youth and women, some of whom exercised their voting rights for the first time in the over 119,000 polling booths scattered all over Nigeria. “To the young people, millions of whom I came across on our campaigns across the length and breadth of this country, and who showed great enthusiasm and promise for a greater Nigeria, I urge you to troop out on Saturday, March 9, to restate your message of a desire for a better Nigeria. Though a few, as shown by ballot snatching and violence are still held down by tribalism and ethnic bigotry, I urge the majority to continue in the march of the New world order, where all are equal, and Nigeria is united, secure and prosperous.”