Stanley Uzoaru, Owerri Governor Rochas Okorocha has blamed the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Adams Oshiomhole for the loss of the candidate of the party, Hope Uzodinma, in the just concluded governorship election in the state, insisting that he was a mole in the party. He disclosed this at press statement he issued through his Chief Press Secretary, Sam Onwuemeodo. He maintained that Oshiomole chose the wrong candidate for the party in the state. “We had maintained that Chief Uzodinma was just a mole in the APC. Today, the governorship election in the state and its outcome have obviously vindicated us. Aside from the fact that Chief Uzodinma worked for the PDP in the presidential/National Assembly elections and also in the governorship/House of Assembly elections, he was one of the first set of people to celebrate with the PDP candidate, Chief Emeka Ihedioha, the moment he was announced the winner of the election. The video of Chief Uzodinma’s celebration with Ihedioha has gone virile on the social media, Governor Okorocha stated. He further said: “Chief Uzodinma succeeded through Adams Oshiomhole to ensure that the list he sent from Abuja which he gave to INEC, only his supporters were made agents of the party and the Resident Electoral Commissioner in the State (REC) Prof. Francis Ezeonu, insisted on the list, just to ensure the success of their conspiracy. Unfortunately, none of the Uzodinma/Oshiomhole’s approved agents were seen either at the ward level, or local government level or at the state level. They didn’t care about the election and its outcome. At the end of the day, the APC candidate came fourth. And he has been celebrating with the PDP candidate,” Okorocha said, However, the media assistant to Uzodinma, Mbadiwe Emelumba, has denied the allegations, insisting that Rochas was bent on tarnishing the image of the APC candidate. Meanwhile, the campaign train of Uche Nwosu has called for the arrest of the State Resident Electoral Commissioner, Prof Ezeonu. Speaking to newsmen, the Director-General of Nwosu campaign organisation, Chidi Ibeh, accused the REC of not using card readers in three local government areas of Ahiazu Mbaise, Aboh Mbaise and Ezinihite Mbaise where Ihedioha scored the highest votes.