Bamigbola Gbolagunte, Akure The All Progressives Congress (APC) has won 23 out of the 26 seats in the Ondo State House of Assembly. The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) won in two constituencies, while the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) won in one constituency. According to the results released by the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in charge of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Ondo State, Dr Rufus Akeju, the ZLP won in Ondo West state constituency, while the PDP won in Ese-Odo and Ilaje while the APC cleared all other constituencies. Although the election was marred by violence in some areas especially Oba Akoko in Akoko South West Local Government Area of the state, the exercise was peaceful in all the polling centres in Ondo South and Ondo Central senatorial districts. Already, the state government has declared a curfew in Oba Akoko as a result of the violence that characterised the poll in the community. Meanwhile, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has finally declared the senatorial candidate of the PDP, Mr Nicholas Tofowomo, as the winner of Ondo South senatorial election. Tofowomo was declared winner of the election after scoring 81, 892 votes to defeat his closest rival who is the incumbent senator representing the area, Yele Omogunwa, of the ruling APC who polled 55, 610 votes. The result was announced by INEC’s Returning Officer for the district, Prof Kayode Onifade, after the senatorial supplementary election held on Saturday was concluded. It would be recalled that INEC had penultimate Saturday, declared the Ondo South senatorial election inconclusive based on the margin of victory by the candidate of the PDP which was less than 28,300 of the total number of registered voters in the affected units where elections either did not hold or were cancelled. Tofowomo had initially polled 79, 036 to defeat Yele Omogunwa who scored 51, 993, with vote margin of 27, 036 when the election was declared inconclusive. Tofowomo who was the former Commissioner for Transport in the state hails from Ondo South. With the outcome of the election, PDP now has two Senators-elect, Tofowomo South District) and Ayo Akinyelure (Central) while APC’s Prof Ajayi Boroffice represents Ondo North senatorial district.