Wole Balogun,  Ado Ekiti Governor of Ekiti State, Kayode Fayemi, has said that the Yoruba race needs to be more tactical if desirous to actualise the restructuring of the country. Fayemi urged proponents of the policy in the region to change strategy and reach out to other regions in order to actualise the dream of restructuring Nigeria economically and politically.   Fayemi spoke in Ado Ekiti on Saturday at a national retreat held by Afenifere Renewal Group (ARG).   He also assured that the All Progressives Congress governors in the zone would work with the governor-elect of Oyo State, Mr. Seyi Makinde, in the interest of the region.   Fayemi said: “There are those who entertain fear on this issue of restructuring and whether this is legitimate or not, we must reach out to them because we are not an island onto ourselves.  “We don’t need to be shouting on the roof top before we get it. But if we want to do it alone, the agitation will fall.”   He xpressed regret over the voter apathy in the South West observed during this year’s general election, urging the ARG to reflect on the issue and act appropriately.  Also speaking at the event, the governors of Ondo and Osun States, Rotimi Akeredolu and Gboyega Oyetola, respectively, said the distinguishable traits of the zone initiated during the defunct Western Region should be brought back in the interest of the people.    National Chairman of the group, Wale Oshun, reiterated the issue of restructuring and advised that it should be taken back to the front burner. Oshun noted that in spite of different decisions taken by the South West in the last elections, the values of the Yoruba people remained the same. “The Yoruba people are progressive people. We are lovely and we care for each other. We are welfarists and we remain the same despite our stands in the just concluded presidential, governorship and legislative elections.   “All we want as a people is to ensure that our interests at the national level are protected and that we get a fair deal in the scheme of things,” he said.