Nigerians have been called upon to embrace progress, rather than a change of government. The call was made during the inauguration of Nigeria Peoples Voice (NPV), by its president, Ambassador Ade Babalola. The inauguration had notable politicians, captains of industry and government functionaries in attendance. Babalola stated: “The mission of the group is to help in the realisation of a political system in which government power and authority is assured through peaceful and democratic process, based on free will and people’s choice. NPV also based its principles on creation of political environment in which citizens are guaranteed equal opportunities irrespective of their culture, religion, geographical origin and physical disabilities. “NPV is not a political party, but an association of progressive minded people of Nigeria (WA-ZO-BIA) that acts as a life wire, that connects voice of people committed to changing social ills in the environment, with a vision of creating a society wherein every member enjoys the full respect of democracy, rule of law, human rights, achieve economic prosperity and social justice; with respects to citizens lives, safety and dignity as watch word. “Government cannot do it alone, because the indigenization decree of 1976 killed the private sector. Another reason that brought us to this sorry pass was IBB’s Chief Olu Falae ill-advised SFEM loan obtained; even as our National Grand Patron Alhaji Lateef Jakande and other leaders shouted themselves hoarse against the proposition. Since then, Nigerians began to buy second hand vehicles, second hand clothes at Katangowa; and every other second hand/Tokunbo items hitherto alien to us.” He recalled how Lagos State motor licensing then, refused to register second hand vehicles; only to buckle after three months when no new vehicle came in for registration. He recommended that the Federal Government, Minister of Education and National Assembly should ensure a retrace of steps by allowing students to go direct to obtain forms from respective universities of their choice and write the exams there, rather than for a third party (JAMB) to handle admissions. This, he said, would safe embezzlement of Nigeria’s money by snakes, monkey, chimpanzees to swallow. Mallam Muhammadu Ali Bana, Lagos chapter PRO said: “The group has been in existence for six years now, but formally registering the presence with today’s inauguration. “Our core aim is to come together as one; no matter where you may come from, to speak as one. And having noted the pedigree and direction of the current president, we have collectively come together to say he should continue the good work.”  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 