Tunde Omolehin, Sokoto Troops of Operation Sharan Daji of the Nigerian Army have killed 55 bandits and rescued no fewer than 760 villagers in continuation of the exercise designed to decimate banditry activities in Zamfara and its environ. The troops also arrested not less than 24 suspected bandits informants, rustlers, kidnappers, logistics suppliers during the operation. This was contained in a statement signed by acting Force Information officer, Major Clement Abiade, and released to the journalists in Sokoto on Tuesday. He stated that the intensity of efforts in the conduct of the military activities in the past weeks had achieved tremendous successes leading to the recovery of weapons, ammunition and rustled cattle. “The troops also had several encounters with bandits during the period in focus and neutralised 55 of them. A total of 24 suspected bandits informants, rustlers, kidnappers and logistics suppliers were arrested during the period in focus. “The suspects have been handed over to Nigeria Police for investigation and possible prosecution. “Similarly, the Air component of Operation SHARAN DAJI carried out several air strikes around Kagara, Gando, Fankama, Fete, and Dumburum forests. Subsequent operations in the forests led to the rescue of 760 abductees. The abductees consisted of men, women, and children from communities in Zamfara State. “Troops of Operation SHARAN DAJI recovered 4 AK47 rifles, 1 Rocket Propelled Gun Tube, 12 Dane guns, 27 AK47 magazines, 168 rounds of 7.62mm (special) ammunition, 1 pump action gun, 47 motorcycles, a Golf Volkswagon car, 61 rustled cattle, 3 pounds of marijuana, nicotine and Tramadol during the period under review. “It is pertinent to state here that the troops’ sustained operation led to the return of over 1,000 IDPs from Maru to Bini village on February 17, 2019. The Emir of Maru, Alhaji Abubakar, Chika Banagan Maru, and the Chairman, Maru LGA, Alhaji Salisu Isah Dangulbi were present at the Maru LGA headquarters departure venue.” Abiade noted that the troops also suffered casualty as one officer, 2 soldiers and members of vigilantes paid the supreme price during the encounter with bandits in Kagara forest. The statement further revealed that the last one week had been a very traumatic one for the people of Zamfara especially in Shinkafi, Anka, and Zurmi where bandits carried out coordinated attacks that led the death of civilians. The force commander, however, commiserated with the families of the fallen heroes and all those who lost their lives, while praying that their sacrifices and quest for peace in Zamfara State would not be in vain. He urged that the men of Operation SHARAN DAJI remain resolute to the mandate of tackling the menace of armed banditry in Zamfara State. 