THE Archbishop of Enugu Ecclesiastical Province and Bishop of Enugu Doicese (Anglican Communion), Most Rev. Dr. Emmanuel Chukwuma, has applauded Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, for his administration’s peace and grassroots development ini- tiatives. Archbishop Chukwuma, who spoke during a thanksgiving service for governor Ugwuanyi’s victory at the polls, held at the Cathedral Church of the Good Shepherd, Enugu, said the “One Community one project” pro- gramme of the present administration in Enugu State was a good legacy the governor would leave behind at the completion of his second tenure in 2023. The archbishop expressed gladness that, “every community can testify that the money (N5million) was given to them” to execute priority projects of their choice, which gave them free hands to develop their communities. He also commended the governor for the prevailing peace in the state and the good governance his admin- istration has entrenched, stressing that the thanksgiving service was also to appreciate God for the peaceful general election in the state. Disclosing the service was in collaboration with one of the support groups for the governor, “The New Era Democrats” led by Prince Okwudili Ekoh, the archbishop said: “We work together to make things happen at the grassroots.” Commenting further on Ugwuanyi’s salient achievements, Archbishop Chukwuma thanked him for reconstructing the historic and undulating Milliken Hill Road, Ngwo, Enugu, and modernising it with street lights, as well as the Opi-Nsukka dual carriageway, among others, describing them as “legacy projects.” He equally described governor Ugwuanyi as “a great achiever, good man, humble and car- ing leader, who is closer to the poor than the rich and cares for them.” He recalled how the governor showed compassion and care to a woman selling sachet water at the Enugu International Trader Fair, who was intercepted by his security personnel for blocking his way with her products. “Ugwuanyi did not only ask his security men to leave the woman, he also gave her money to expand her petty busi- ness. He (Ugwuanyi) celebrated his 55th birth- day with the elderly and orphans and told those who brought gifts to him to take everything they wanted to give him to the poor. “Your Excellency, be- cause you have sowed the seed of unity in Enugu State, you don’t discriminate, I went to the Roman Catholic University, Godfrey Okoye University, to celebrate your birthday, to break the barrier.” Praying for the governor, Archbishop Chukwuma said: “God will give you the grace to continue your good works without any obstruction.