Enugu State Executive Council (EXCO) has awarded multiple contracts for the construction, reconstruction of urban, rural roads and 263 classroom blocks. The council also approved the purchase of 22,150 set of lockers and chairs for students; 1,228 set of tables and chairs for the teachers; 1,130 marker boards for teaching and 1,960 ceiling fans for conducive learning environment. The administration equally awarded contract for the construction of a state-of-the-art administrative block at the new site of the Enugu State University of Education, Ihe, in Awgu Local Government Area, as the first significant step towards the relocation of the school from G.R.A Enugu, to the permanent site. Briefing newsmen on the outcome of the council’s meeting, the Commissioner for Education, Prof. Uche Eze, said the council approved the purchase of two Hilux vans for effective monitoring and supervision of the projects. He disclosed that the construction of classrooms and procurement of facilities will cost N4 billion. He said this is in keeping with Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi’s commitment to full implementation of the 2019 budget, for the advancement of the cause of development. Prof. Eze, who explained that the projects will be executed under the Enugu State Basic Education Board (ENSUBEB), revealed that “the state government has already contributed its counterpart fund, which led to the drawdown of the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) fund.” He disclosed that the construction of the administrative block at Ihe, will cost N162,913,167.90, adding that when completed, activities and the processes of obtaining relevant approvals from the National University Commission (NUC) will commence. The education commissioner further disclosed that the building “will not only accommodate the vice chancellor’s office and the registrar’s office, but, also, accommodate the Council Chamber, the office of the pro-chancellor and other offices that would ensure the kick-off of smooth administration.” He said: “His Excellency has shown full commitment to the take off of the university. That structure is the very first significant step, and before long, the university will take off fully.” On road projects, the Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Greg Nnaji, said in line with the governor’s promise in the 2019 budget for “better urban, inter-local government and community road infrastructure,” the council equally approved the construction/reconstruction of Carter Street, Asata, Enugu; Aludele Road, Nsukka; Bishop Court Road, Awgu; Access Road to Igbo Ano Specialist Hospital, Igbo Ano, and failed culvert, pavement and surfacing at Onuiyi Road, Nsukka, adjacent to Zik’s residence, totalling N544.795, 992.68.