Uber has announced an extension of its Partner Injury Protection cover for driver-partners in Nigeria to include a daily payment benefit. Since 2017, Uber driver-partners and riders across Nigeria have been protected on the road. However, with this new update, driver-partners in Nigeria now have more peace of mind when using Uber. The upped protection cover thus becomes an innovative and first-of-its-kind solution for driver-partners and riders using technology apps across the country. General Manager for West Africa, Lola Kassim, explains, “We believe this extended partnership with AXA Mansard Insurance will play a huge role in achieving our goal of reliable, affordable, and safe transportation options for all driver-partners and riders across Nigeria.  This update forms part of Uber’s global commitment across the Middle East and Africa (MEA) region and is a unique, first of its kind solution for driver-partners and riders using technology apps across Nigeria.” Driver-partners are covered from the moment they accept a trip, while driving to pick up a rider, and until the trip ends, while riders will be covered from the moment a trips starts, until the trip ends. In the unfortunate event of an accident resulting in an injury during a trip, driver-partners and riders will have access to the following benefits: Medical cover: If an accident occurs on-trip, this cover reimburses the driver-partner and rider for necessary medical treatment costs up to N600,000. In addition, this cover reimburses ground ambulance service costs up to N20, 000. Death and funeral payment: In the unfortunate event that a driver-partner or rider dies as a result of an accident on-trip, his dependents or heirs will benefit from a lump sum payment of  N2,000,000 while N100,000 will be reimbursed to cover funeral expenses. Permanent disability: In the unfortunate event that a user suffers a permanent disability as a result of an accident on-trip, he will benefit from a lump sum payment of up to N2,000,000  (the amount depends on the severity of the disability). New daily payment benefit (injury): If a driver-partner is hospitalised for more than 24 hours as a result of an accident that occurred on-trip and is, thereafter, unable to drive because of those injuries, he will receive a daily payment of N1,000 for up to 30 days whilst he is medically certified by a doctor as unfit to conduct their transportation business. 