This year’s edition of the Employee Health Week of First City Monument Bank (FCMB), began on Monday, March 18, 2019 with an assurance by the management that it would continue to encourage and execute programmes that promote healthy living and work life balance of its employees. The week long programme, which runs till March 22, is aimed at promoting the well-being and reducing the health risk factors of employees as well as their respective family members. The objective is to generate sustainability through several health and exciting activities that ultimately enhance productivity. It focuses on good nutrition, exercise and early detection of diseases such as diabetes, hypertension and high cholesterol, among others. The highlights of this year’s FCMB Employee Health Week is free and comprehensive medical check-up for all employees of the bank, free mammograms for female employees to help detect early signs of cancer, counselling and tips on healthy eating and lifestyle especially the importance of eating more fruits and vegetables. These will be carried out in partnership with a team of highly experienced nutrition experts, health coaches, medical specialists and counsellors. In addition, the financial institution has also scheduled a Family Fitness Day event in Lagos and its regional offices. This will bring together employees, their spouses and children who will engage in various fitness and fun-filled fitness activities, including aerobics, stress relief therapies and other games. There will also be a healthy food cooking competition among staff of the bank. Speaking on the significance of the Employee Health Week, Divisional Head, Corporate Services of FCMB, Felicia Obozuwa, said it is one of the key initiatives of the bank carefully designed to promote its great place to work philosophy. According to her, “because employees spend so much of their time in the office, mostly sitting at a desk, it is important to encourage a healthy lifestyle. Healthier employees will have less frequent health issues. 