Gilbert Ekezie In order to bring respite to the pains residents and Kirikiri industrial area are going through, as a result of the recklessness of truck drivers,  Lagos State Government has awarded contract for the rehabilitation/ upgrading of Happy Home Avenue-Alahun Ozumba Link Road, at Kirikiri, in Oriade Local Council Development Area. Speaking at an emergency meeting organizsd by the New Kirikiri Industrial Association in Lagos, yesterday, Director of Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance in the state Ministry of Work, Engineer Somide Lateef Ayodele, said construction would commence with immediate effect and is expected to last four months. He explained that the project became necessary because the Ambode-led administration is sensitive to the plights of residents and corporate organisations operating in the area, as they have suffered a lot in the hands of truck drivers who have decided to use some roads in the  locality as parking lots and alternative routes to Tin Can port. Ayodele solicited the support  and understanding of the industrial association for the successful execution of the project. “We need to work together to see that the developmental project is completed,” Ayodele said and called on all trucks plying the Alahun Ozumba Street to Kirikiri to take alternative routes throughout the exercise as no vehicle would be allowed to use the road while construction is going on.  Those who have abandoned trucks or container on the road should remove them without delay,” he warned. Chairman of New Kirikiri Industrial Association, Ambassador Joel Nwameme, expressed gratitude to Lagos  state government for the project, and pointed out that it was a welcome development. He said the project is part of the deliverance of democracy dividends by the state government to the industrial estate and Nwameme specifically thanked Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for the gesture and called on the incoming governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to follow the good steps of his predecessor. He also seized the opportunity  to plead with both state and federal governments to do something concerning the gridlock experienced daily in and around Kirikiri industrial area. According to Nwameme, majority of the companies in the area are relocating to other states and countries which invariably, is affecting the labour market there. “That has led to many workers losing their jobs,” he said and reiterated the position of the members of the association to partner with the three tiers of government in ensuring regular payments of taxes and other regulatory bills. He also said residents and Kirikiri business community  would be grateful if the trucks and their drivers areaddressed aggressively.