Paramount Group, the African-based global defence and aerospace company, has proudly launched its Marauder armoured vehicle and personnel carrier within the Republic of Nigeria, in partnership with the Nigerian Air Force. The move comes as Nigeria is bolstering its efforts to effectively tackle a wide range of threats posed by various terrorist and extremist groups. The Vehicle Marauder is a 15-tonne and is a uniquely designed armoured land system. It can be reconfigured as either a troop carrier or combat vehicle, maintaining excellent cross-country agility while reaching a top speed of 120 km/hr over challenging terrains. The Vehicle which is popularly described as “The World’s Most Unstoppable Vehicle” has lot of features like Double-Skinned Hull throughout its cabin and crew compartment to protect it against a wide range of kinetic attacks such as protecting the crew against AK-47 attacks. The vehicle can also withstand a side blast (IED or roadside bomb) equivalent to 50kgs of explosives which is critical for the assymetrical warfare experienced in Northern parts of the country. The Marauder is further equipped with specially designed anti-blast seats, which prevent injury from the extreme acceleration of a side blast or mine blast under the hull. The Marauder offers outstanding fire power to protect its crew against heavy attacks and can be fitted with a wide range of weapons systems. These particular Marauders are equipped with a Jordanian-made snake head turret fitted with a 7.62mm machine gun. Speaking on the partnership, the senior Vice President of Paramount Group, Eric Ichikowitz, stated that, “We are privileged to work alongside the Nigerian Air Force, commending, through the acquisition and deployment of the Marauder, their continued commitment to enhancing their continued commitment to enhancing their national defence and internal security capabilities and prowess.
“Nigeria’s Government also understands not only the leadership role they play in international peace keeping missions across the ECOWAS, but indeed how to effectively address the evolutionary nature of those Cross-regional challenges posed by threats such as organized Insurgences. Paramount Group subsidiary Paramount Maritime notably received orders for dozens of rigid hull inflatable boats (RHIBs) in 2018 in a multipurpose effort by the Nigerian Navy to defend its blue economy and coastline, for the continued military training of its Special Forces, rescue and patrol operations and for the protection of the nation’s oil and gas assets.