FORMER minister of Aviation, Chief Osita Chidoka, and two other members of Obosi royal cabinet have been placed on indefinite suspension by the Igwe-in- Council for alleged “acts of sacrilege and abomination they committed against the revered age old customs of the people.” Handing down the suspension order on Chiefs Chidoka (Ike Obosi), Linus Mgbakogu (Atta Obosi) and Hyacinth Udemba (Akampo- si Obosi), after an emergency meeting of the cabinet chiefs and women group, held at the palace of Igwe Chidubem Iweka, Obosi, Anambra State, yesterday, the council said the trio were axed for their roles on March 9, 2019, after the supplementary election for the Idemili North/South Federal Constituency. Dr. Bennett Mozie, who read a signed statement on behalf of Eze and Ndi Ichie Obosi, noted that the decision was arrived at after due consultations and deliberations with all relevant ancient traditional bodies of Obosi. “These three Ndichie Obosi on the said date, contrary to the tradition of the ancient Obosi kingdom, which strongly forbids Eze na Ndi-Ichie Obosi from allowing themselves to witness and or observe the corpse of any human be- ing, had themselves ordered two dead bodies, apparently shot dead in circumstances suspected to be connected with the election activities of same date, to be loaded on to the rear of a pickup van as they watched. They, subsequently, marched on foot directly behind the corpses, through the main street of Obosi, a public and flagrant violation of a sacred taboo in Obosi tradition. “With Chief Chidoka and Chief Mgbakogu directing affairs, and Chief Udemba videoing the elaborate charade, they headed towards the palace of Eze Obosi, gathering a large crowd as they moved to the pal- ace. Arriving the palace, these Ndi-Ichies instructed that the corpses be off- loaded and dumped at the Ime Obi; an insulting and dishonouring act, an abomination of the gravest magnitude, particularly coming from titled men who swore to uphold the sacred customs of the kingdom.” Contacted for comments, media aide to Chidoka, Ikechukwu Okafor, said his boss was presently not in town, but will respond, accordingly, when he returns within the week. On his part, Udemba said the order did not follow due process, even as he accused those behind it as acting a premeditated script. 