Emmanuel Adeyemi, Lokoja The younger brother of former  governor of Kogi State, Engineer Musa Wada was Wednesday declared winner of the PDP governorship primary with 748 votes, beating 12 other aspirants
The son of former governor Ibrahim Idris, Abubakar Idris, emerged the first runners up with 710 votes with Dino Melaye coming third and Capt Idris Wada picking the fourth position. The elected candidate is the son-in-law to Alh Ibrahim Idris whose son Abubakar came second. Announcing the result, the governor of Adamawa State, Ahmed Fintri, while praising the contestants for their maturity and steadfastness urged all of them to close rank and work for the party ‘s candidate in the general election. Earlier, there was an upheaval at the party’s governorship primaries which held at the Lokoja Confluence Stadium as volleys of bullets flew around with many aspirants, delegates and journalists all running into different directions for their lives. The stampede led to the death of one Loko Abdullahi with many seriously injured. The election had ended peacefully on Tuesday, September 3, 2019, at about 23:00 pm and counting of results was underway until about 1.50am when violence erupted and the whole arena was filled with smoke. Over 2,500 delegates from across the 21 local government areas had participated in the exercise to elect a flag bearer of the party for the November 16 governorship election. The accreditation of the delegates had been followed by five minutes each address of the delegates before the commencement of voting. Those who contested the election included former governor, Capt Idris Wada, his younger brother, Musa Wada, son of former Governor Ibrahim Idris, Abubakar Idris and Senator
Dino Melaye. Others who were in contention were Aminu Abubakar Suleiman, Joe Erico Ameh and Victor Adoji.  Four other aspirants earlier cleared for the primaries reportedly stepped down from the race on Monday night. The delegates Congress had scored the planning and organisation of the exercise highly. The delegates had their passport photographs affixed to their tags. Governor Ahmed Fintiri of Adamawa state alongside five others presided at the congress. 