The Independent National Electric Commission (INEC) Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Kogi State, Prof. James Apam, yesterday, expressed the fear of possible violence during the November 16 governorship election in the state. Apam disclosed this at the unveiling of “Get Out The Vote (GOTV), Voter Education and Stop Violence Against Women In Politics (STOP VAWIP)” campaign, and stakeholders’ meeting in Lokoja. He said on several occasions, INEC had prepared to conduct credible elections and had  put in place to the machinery for  free, fair and acceptable elections only for such elections to be disrupted by violence. The REC said that the commission intended to correct the flaws identified in past elections during the forthcoming election, saying “we intend to correct them and make this one a test case for elections in this country. Said Apam: “INEC is doing everything possible to organize free, fair and credible governorship election in November. We have met with traditional rulers and other stakeholders in the state on the way forward. “People always blame INEC when there is problem, but the truth of the matter is that in most cases, the electorate and politicians are responsible for the problems. “Yes, on our part, we normally encounter some problems, but I can assure you that some of these problems will be solved before, during and after election. Our main worry has always been violence. “You spent a lot of time to prepare for elections, putting resources together, training men and women for the exercise. “ You send them to the field for the exercise and all of a sudden, someone with a gun appears and starts shooting and before you know what is happening, everything has been disrupted,” Apam lamented. Apam, therefore, enjoined parents, especially women, to help talk to their children and wards on the need to eschew violence, adding that with absence of violence, there would be massive turnout during the election and the exercise would be hitch-free. The REC also urged the electorate to conduct themselves in an orderly manner before and during the election to enhance smooth exercise.