Aidoghie Paulinus, Abuja The Government of the Republic of South Africa has reopened its Nigerian Missions – the High Commission in Abuja and the Consulate in Lagos – country Acting High Commissioner Bobby Moroe has said. The High Commission and the Consulate were reopened after they were shut down last week by the South African Government, following fears of attacks as a result of reported xenophobic attacks on Nigerians living in South Africa. The South African Minister of International Relation and Cooperation, Dr Naledi Pandor, had last week said that both offices were closed following concerns reported to her by officials at both Missions. Acting South African High Commissioner to Nigeria Moroe, who confirmed the development, said the High Commission in Abuja reopened on Monday, with the Consulate reopened today. Moroe added that the reopening of the Missions followed assurances by the Federal Government of the safety of their staff and families. Moroe’s statement reads: “The South African High Commission in Abuja and its Consulate in Lagos resumed operations on Monday and Tuesday, respectively. All staff members and their families are accounted for, and no incident of intimidation has been experienced by any of them since resuming official work. “We are receiving support from the office of the IG (Inspector General of Police) and many of our colleagues have been reassured of their safety. “The South African Missions in Nigeria have been reassured by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of its unwavering support during this period. “The relations between the two countries remain strong and on course. Once again, we condemn the careless use of social media as it creates panic amongst communities.” Moroe further said that the High Commission and the Consulate were ready to serve Nigerians, even as he said both Missions looked forward to a rewarding and fulfilling relationship. “We are now ready to serve our Nigerian brothers and sisters and look forward to a rewarding and fulfilling relationship,” Moroe said.