Graceland Estate is located in Irete, on the outskirt of the state capital Owerri, commissioned by Chief Nduese Essien Minister of Lands, Housing, and Urban Development. According to the FHA boss, the houses were constructed and finished with the highest attention for security, luxury and ease of residents, adding that the amenities in the housing units were designed to give the highest gratification to the buyers. This Estate which is also part of the residential estates in Imo State will have other commercial and entertaining facilities such as shop, Lawn tennis court, an eatery, football field, basketball pitch, an and cash centre. Imo State is located in the South East of Nigeria. Graceland Estate, located at Irete, an outskirt of Owerri has been commissioned by the Minister of Lands, Housing and Urban Development, Chief Nduese Essien who lauded Governor Ikedi Ohakim for providing the ambience that enabled the estate and many more development projects to flourish in the Eastern heartland. When fully completed, Graceland Estate shall accommodate other support commercial and recreational facilities such as shops, football field, lawn tennis court, basketball pitch, an eatery and cash centre. Imo, one of the oil-rich states in Nigeria is bordered by Abia State on the East, River Niger and Delta State to the West, Anambra State on the North and Rivers State to the South. The main cities in Imo State are Owerri, Orlu and Okigwe. Residential Estates in Imo state depict a form of luxury and class. Some of these estates are; Graceland Estate, World Bank Housing Estate, and Gold Palm Estate owerri among others with most of them located in Owerri. There are also residential estates in Imo State. It is one of the oil-rich states in Nigeria that is bounded by Abia State on the East, Anambra State on the North River Niger and Delta State to the West, and Rivers State to the South. Owerri is the capital of Imo state. It is currently referred to as the entertainment capital of Nigeria because of its high density of spacious hotels, high street casinos, production studios and high-quality relaxation centres. Owerri is a beautiful and serene environment to live. Since accommodation is crucial to human existence, Graceland Estate happen to be one of the most beautiful residential estates in the state.