Romanus Ugwu, Abuja The Department of State Service (DSS) has denied arresting journalist and activist Chido Onumah, clarifying that he had merely been engaged in a courteous interaction regarding the potential for incitement of a tee shirt he wore which bore the inscription: “WE ARE ALL BIAFRANS”. Explaining what transpired at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja on Sunday, DSS Public Relations Officer Peter Afunanya, in a statement, said that the Service had acted to save Onumah from an attack which would have sparked “ethno-religious reprisals”. The DSS statement reads: “The DSS wishes to make clarifications regarding media reports that Dr Chido Onumah was arrested by the Service. To set the records right, Onumah was never arrested by the Service. “He was rather engaged in an interaction during which an act of his capable of undermining public order and national security was explained to him. “On his arrival at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, on September 29, 2019, it was discovered that Onumah wore a T-shirt with WE ARE ALL BIAFRANS inscription on it. “With credible intelligence that he might be a subject of mob attack if allowed to go into town in same clothe, the Service invited him and drew his attention to the implications of his probable (un)intended action. “It was strongly believed that an attack on Onumah would have sparked ethno-religious reprisals with dire consequences for law and order and public safety in the country. “He understood the issues and pledged not to engage in activities that may cause disaffection in Abuja and the country at large. He subsequently removed the clothe with the inciting symbols and inscriptions and agreed not to use it. “The interaction between Onumah and the Service held in a convivial atmosphere. He appreciated the courtesies extended to him. Afterwards, the Servcie arranged for him to go back to his accommodation in town. “It is hoped that this clarification has dispelled the erroneous claims and reportage that he was arrested. The Service acted within the confines of its mandate and only carried out its routine security duty that could have been discharged by a similar agency in any part of the world. “It is not out of place for concerned security agencies to have sought clarification from a traveller concerning a subject of security interest. “The DSS reaffirms its avowed commitment to the rule of law and protection of citizens and national critical assets.”