 The big boss at Monkey Media House Records, popularly known as MMH Records and TRONIQ Incorporation, Godfrey Eguakun, has given an insight into the future of Afrobeat genre of music, stating emphatically that it cannot suffer the same fate as Reggae or Makossa which had a long spell of reign and then died out. Afrobeat, Afropop, Afrofusion, Afro-soul or whatever we want to call it is relatively new and we don’t quite know it in its entirety, so I think it is too early to ask if afrobeats will die or not, but one thing we have learnt about afrobeats so far is its ability to adapt to other genres of music and create something novel, create genres that in fact don’t exist as far as our prior knowledge of music goes. We have seen this play out in several cross continental collaborations of some of the biggest afrobeat artists. So, the question I think should be if afrobeat will evolve into unknown and novel genre, and how soon this transition, or this evolution will take. But in the sense of “dying”, that is not happening anytime soon,” he said when asked about the future of Afrobeat in a chat with our reporter. Eguakun who has two notable artistes, Akaycentric and Kreatunez signed to his MMH and Oxlade to the TRONIQ label also took a look at the music industry, identifying the legal framework of the country as the major impediment to its growth. He said: “We need a judiciary system that works and effective. If we have an effective and reliable judiciary system, creatives will be able to protect their creative work more in terms of copyright and infringement on those rights, as well as exploit it properly to make more financial gains than they currently do right now in Nigeria, and just as I mentioned earlier, in terms of litigation for recording contracts, labels and artist alike will be able to enforce, negotiate and apply the provisions contained within the contract amongst other benefits.” Eduakun is an Edo State indigene, born in Osogbo and currently lives in the United States. He’s a mechanical engineer by day working on jet engine designs and manufacturing and a businessman by night, managing and running multiple businesses. His Monkey Media House Records is an indie Record Label founded in 2017. Outside making and selling records, he does talent development, talent management, artiste promotions/media management and digital music distribution. HisTRONIQ Inc on the other hand was founded in mid 2019, it’s a digital indie recording company, shaped around traditional models. 