Lukman Olabiyi Retired Superintendent of Police, Mr Michael Nwokolo, has threatened to take  the International Center for Investigative Reporting (ICIR) to court over  allegations that he parades certificate of an unaccredited and dubious university. Speaking at a press conference in Lagos,Nwokolo, who is also the Registrar, International Academy of Forensics, said that the ICIR  recent  publication against him was not in good faith, rather  to tarnish  his reputation and good name he built  many years of hard work and determination. Nwokolo, warned that he would not condone false and malicious allegations against his personality as he has contributed immensely to his father’s land through the  police Force. According to him, he has  over 40 qualifications to his credit  and  many awards through hard work and dedication to service. The forensic expert lamented that the media centre failed to confirm from him before going to the Press ,and reported that his PhD in Sociology  certificate from Green Hills University, Denmark, was discovered to be unaccredited. He said: “The ICIR story, was not done properly or the writer  was misled. If I have fake certificates, I will not parade them on my social media  platform as a senior police of repute. “With my qualifications and experience in my career that spanned for over 30 years, I should have been giving a fair hearing before going to the press. I am retried from the service, but not tired to offer my services to the country in the area of  forensics if the need arises. “The Green Hills University is still there for anybody to confirm if I was a  student in the institution or not . “I have many recommendation letters from the Nigeria  Police Force , and some international organisations gave me various awards. “The offices are there for anybody to confirm my story, because I will not fold my arms and watch people  to  destroy my reputation. “ If ICIR had informed me and inquired from me about my certificate, I would have cleared the air. The writer did not  hear from me, rather the centre went ahead to published unconfirmed information against me. “The ICIR’s story  also ,said  that the Nigerian Institute of Journalism (NIJ), where he was awarded upper credit in post graduate diploma  in business administration,  does not offer such programme.”