A25 -year-old Accounting graduate, Miss Blessing Ikponmwosa , has  emerged winner of the 2019 edition of  the Miss Ambassador for Peace Africa pageant, a platform for spreading the message of peace. The pageant was organised by the Peace Ambassador Agency, a non-governmental organisation, advocating peaceful and united Nigeria, as well as regional peace and harmony in Africa. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that 25 ladies contested for the  highly  coveted crown  at the 8th edition of the annual  event on Saturday  night at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja. The new queen will serve as an ambassador for peace, preaching peaceful and united Nigeria as part of her pet project during her one-year in line with the visions of the organisation. In her speech, Ikponmwosa pledged to be committed to campaigning effectively for Nigerians’ peaceful co-existence ,as well as security in Africa. “I really want to use this opportunity to contribute my quota to building of a peaceful society for all. “I will work hard in line with the organisation’s objective to promote tribal and religious tolerance among Nigerians,“ she said. Earlier, Mr Kingsley Amafibe, the Project Director of the organisation, said that the pageant was aimed at promoting peace as a veritable tool for national development. “This has been a vehicle through which we carry the message of peace across Nigeria. “We, as an agency, have sought peace and we have preached peace through this unique platform that we have taken to different states and communities. “The peace education campaign, which is targeted mainly at the youth, has reached institutions of higher learning and other youth communities through the Peace Ambassador project,’’ he said. “We have also reached other countries in Africa with our programmes and campaign for a stronger and peaceful Africa. He said that achieving and sustaining peace needed collective efforts of all citizens. NAN reports that Miss Ambassador for Peace pageant, which started in 2012, is  held annually alongside the Peace Achievers International Award. The 2019 edition of the awards recognized Africans, especially Nigerians drawn from different works of life. They were honoured for their   leadership roles and selfless service in peace building and commitment to programmes that engender peace, promote youth and economic development and humanitarian services. Music artistes, comedians and other entertainers thrilled the audience to scintillating performances at this year’s event. (NAN)