Herbalife Ball Ltd, manufacturer of Herbalife Ball Steam Application Pain Pack, a ball shaped sack containing herbs which is steamed to get hot and later compressed on the key areas of the body to allow essential oil from the herbs to penetrate deeply. According to the manufacturer, the product has been tested by over 10,000 clients with muscle, nerve, vein and artery related cases. “It has been used in-house for over 10 years by physiotherapists and massage therapists in all our clinics as a therapy for stroke, back problem, trapped nerves, rheumatism, arthritis, neck problems, joint problems, difficulty in walking and standing upright, numbness, muscle aches and pains, atrophy, twitching, stiffness, spasms, heaviness, inflammation, cramps and many more. Benefits of the Herbalife Ball Steam Application Pain Pack to body systems: • Circulation system: Application of the Herbalife ball improves blood circulation, lowers heart rate, increases lymphatic circulation, and reduces edema (swelling). • Musculoskeletal system: Improves muscle strength and effectiveness, relieves muscle tension, removes toxins from muscle mass, relaxes the tendons and enhances elasticity, increases joint mobility and flexibility, and reduces stiffness. • Nervous system: Stimulates and improves activity of the nerves and sensations with the effects of reducing pain, enhancing sensation to the skin, and improving brain function. • Respiratory system: Improves depth of breathing and relaxation. About Herbalifeball Ltd HERBALIFEBALL LTD: A foremost natural physiotherapy company in Nigeria with an innovative idea in the physiotherapy industry that produced a medicine for accident recovery patients and the elderly that is the first of its kind to be neither oral nor cream. The evolution of this innovative idea has created results that drive our products and services at the same time utilizing quality therapeutic botanical ingredients. We combine traditional methodologies to create unique products with ethical practices at affordable price. Herbalifeball Ltd has four clinics here in Lagos with staff strength of over 80 and caters for over 200 patients on a daily basis. We train others on the techniques of the HERBALIFEBALL STEAM APPLICATION PAIN PACK duly registered by National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Herbalife Ball as the foremost Natural Physiotherapy company in Nigeria and a recent Recipient of the award for AFRICA’S BEST PHYSIOTHERAPY COMPANY OF THE YEAR, 2019 has currently trained over 150 Nigerians who are successfully running their private practices. Herbalifeball Ltd has been a great influence to the elderly and accident recovery patients through her radio talk shows and enlightenments. The company also makes corporate social responsibility a priority. • For more info please contact us on 09030002708 and follow us on Instagram @Herbalifeball • Distributors and partners needed nationwide