Paul Osuyi, Asaba Two communities in Delta State, Isaba, in Warri South Local Government Area ( LGA),  and Aladja, in Udu LGA, have signed a peace pact to end a feud that had rocked both communities since 2016. The peace pact was jointly sealed by the Ovie of Udu kingdom, Emmanuel Delekpe, and the regent of Isaba kingdom,  John Ekpenzu, and witnessed by the peace committee led by Edwin Uzor, the  special adviser to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa on Peace Building and Conflict Resolution. Stakeholders of both communities including presidents-general and others were also present during the brief signing ceremony. Addressing the stakeholders,   Uzor ,stressed that the present administration has invested so much to build a stronger Delta, despite the complex nature of the state. Uzor said, through  his office, the state government has successfully addressed over 85 percent of more than 300 conflict cases in recent times, adding that the efforts of the governor, as captured in the S.M.A.R.T Agenda, in ensuring that the state remained stable cannot be quantified. He conveyed the promise of the governor to tar the  only road linking the communities among other dividends, and enjoined the youths to always give peace a chance as conflict is an anathema to development. “Nothing is difficult before God and I believe that every matter in the state must be settled. “What has happened here today is that the good people of Aladja and Isaba communities have sealed the agreement that they will co-exist peacefully the way they have done over the years,” Uzor said. Chairman of Udu community, Jite Brown, and his colleague from Warri South, Taiye Tuoyo, expressed gratitude to Uzor and the state government for wading into the conflict situation. Similarly, the president-general of Aladja community, Otto Ogbiruveta, expressed readiness to abide by the peace pact, just as his counterpart from Isaba community; Henry Ofoleyon, said that the lingered crisis caused both communities more than they bargained.