Tony John, Port Harcourt Rivers State Governor,  Nyesom  Wike, has directed the Governing Council of the Rivers State University (RSU) to continue with the  employment exercise for academic and non-academic staff. Wike stated this, yesterday, when he commissioned the Rivers State University Students Union Building at the school premises,  saying he was compelled to suspend the exercise because of the negative issues that bedevilled it. “I suspended the process for the employment exercise due to the issues that emanated from it. The committee that I set  up to investigate  the process has turned in its report. “I am satisfied  with  the report  of the committee.  Therefore,  I have informed  the Pro-Chancellor to go ahead with the employment  exercise.” Governor Wike said unlike other leaders, he has never interfered with admission and employment  processes of any institution in the state. He said his transparent approach  to administration has given  him the moral power  to discipline  erring officials. The governor approved the construction of an ultra-modern Senate building for the  university. He said that, if the Pro-Chancellor and acting Vice Chancellor make the design available on time, the building  would be completed  by the first anniversary of his second term. He called on the Students Union leadership to use the new facility to fight cultism,  harassment of female students and examination  malpractices. Governor Wike urged the acting Vice Chancellor to be firm and ensure that the university continues  to move forward. Pro-Chancellor of the university,  Justice Iche Ndu, said the completion  of the Students Unions building was the sixth major project completed by Governor Wike in the institution. He assured the State governor that the Governing Council and Management of the institution will work  towards making the State  University,  a world class institution. The pro-Chancellor appealed to students to use the new building to fight vices, charging that the university should  be a centre of learning. Acting Vice Chancellor of the University,  Professor Opuenebo described the delivery of the building  as a milestone in the annals of students unionism. She said: “This is a milestone  in the annals of students unionism.  It gives  the students a sense of belonging as major stakeholders”. Also speaking,  the Permanent Secretary of Bureau of Special Projects,  Mr. Sunday Okere, said the magnificent building was constructed and equipped by Governor Wike. President of the Students Union Government,  Precious Pepple, said Rivers people re-elected Governor Wike because to execute more projects for them. The occasion witness the presentation of an appreciation award to the  State Governor by President National Union of Rivers State Students (NURSS),   Patrick Ogbuehi.