A member of the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC), in Lagos State, Chief Lanre Razak, has said that Governor Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu is on the right track in his first 100 days in office. He said Sanwo-Olu’s performance with in that short period “is heart-warming and cheering. He needs further support of all to succeed in the onerous task of moving the state forward to the next level.” The elder statesman thanked God for guiding Lagos residents to make the right choice by voting the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate presented to them by the leaders of the party under the leadership of the party’s National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. He expressed delight that Sanwo-Olu started on a “very good note within the first 100 days in office,” however, urged Lagos residents to double their support for him: “From the looks of things, Lagos people are in for a good time under this workaholic team player.” The former Public Transportation Commissioner said: “One of the major ways to assist any government to succeed is payment of taxes as at when due. It is through tax that the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) could be shored up to guarantee more dividends of democracy to the people. “I hereby appeal to the good people of Lagos to uphold their civic responsibilities through payment of their taxes for more development, growth and progress of the state to enable it maintain its position as one of the most viable economies on the African continent. And I can assure you that, any revenue accruing from such social responsibility would be prudently managed because of Sanwo-Olu’s financial frugality.” Razak also urged the people to sustain the peaceful co-existence among the various ethnic groups and religious adherents in the state, reminding that chaos is antithetical to economic growth, social comfort and religious harmony. On the newly inaugurated cabinet, Razak congratulated the Lagos people on the assemblage of the star-studded team: “With the team, Lagos people can go to sleep with their eyes closed as the tested and trusted hands in the cabinet would perform wonders.” Speaking on security challenges in Nigeria, the elder statesman called for vigilance “because security of any community is a collective responsibility of the generality of the citizenry.” He urged the citizenry to monitor their environment with a view to reporting suspicious movements from strange people to the appropriate quarters for prompt actions: “Community policing is the panacea to the security challenges facing the country presently.”