Christopher Oji The Lagos State Police Command has busted a child’s theft syndicate in Lagos . The police rescued  a one -week -old -baby stolen from Gombe State from the syndicate. The baby who was seriously sick has been taken to the hospital for treatment. Lagos State police public relations officer, DSP Bala Elkana ,said the syndicate was discovered August 26 at the Jakande Estate gate, Ejigbo area of Lagos. According to Elkana,”about 3.30pm, a police officer attached to  Motor traffic division, while controlling  traffic at Jakande gate, Ejigbo, noticed a sort of commotion  close to her traffic point. She intervened  and discovered  that the commotion was about two ladies, Gift, 24, and Florence ,50, found with a new born baby.  They were about to be lynched  over the suspicion that the baby may have been stolen. Some people who have been trailing them from their residence in Ijegun,raised the alarm. “The community had been suspecting that the suspects were using their clinic for the business  of buying and selling of babies, but for the timely intervention of the traffic police woman, the  women with the baby were rescued and taken  to the  Ejigbo divisional police Headquarters  where indept  investigation was conducted. “ Investigation revealed  that the said Florence, a native of Igueben , Edo State, who is not a registered  Nurse operates two Maternity/  Clinics, Flofidel Clinic and Maternity  Homes with branches in  Shosanya Street, I82, Ijegun road ,and Okunola Ijagemo areas. On interrogation,   Florence confessed to have been in the business of  sales of babies for a while. She revealed that a baby girl is referred  to as “Pink” while a baby boy is called “Blue”; and are both referred to as “market”. She further confessed that the male baby found in their possession was brought to her from Gombe, enroute Akure and  that they wanted to sell the baby  for N500,000.00. Worthy of mention are  pictures of about 50 different babies in the phone of the suspect, believed to have already been sold. Florence confessed that babies were usually sold between N500,000.00 and N1million depending on sex. sex”.