Christopher Oji The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu, has ordered watertight security around embassies, foreign missions, foreigners and their businesses within the country. This order is against the backdrop of the unfortunate attack on Shoprite outlets in Lekki area of Lagos Sate on September 3, by some miscreants who looted the malls ostensibly under the pretext of protesting against the incessant xenophobic attacks on Nigerians in South Africa. To this end, all zonal Assistant Inspectors-General of Police and Commissioners of police across the federation have been placed on red alert to ensure no similar violence is replicated within the country. In a statement, Force public relations officer, Frank Mba, said:”The IGP condemns the violent attacks and notes that three police officers were seriously injured and a police operational vehicle was set ablaze. He also notes that 125 suspects have been arrested in connection with the incident while a good number of looted valuables have been recovered by the police. “While recognising the rights of citizens to air their views on salient national issues as enshrined in our statutes, the Force reiterates that these must be done within the confines of the law. Miscreants and criminally minded people who masquerade as genuine protesters are, therefore, warned to stay off the streets of Nigeria as the Force will not hesitate to bring to bear the full weight of the law on any such law breaker. Parents and guardians are, therefore, enjoined to prevail on their children and wards to desist from acts capable of causing breakdown of law and order in the country. “Meanwhile, the Force has commenced investigations and profiling of the arrested suspects with a view to establishing their connection with the stealing, malicious damage, arson and disturbance of public peace on the day of the incident. “The Force is, hereby, reassuring all law abiding citizens, embassies, foreign missions, foreigners and their businesses within the country of their security and safety.”