Moses Akaigwe Kia Motors has revealed a trio of new concepts at the 2019 Seoul Motor Show, previewing the brand’s future design direction. Two of the three concepts make their international debut in Seoul, with the rugged Kia ‘Masterpiece’ taking centre stage, combining a large SUV body with a luxurious, high-tech cabin. The Masterpiece is accompanied by the Kia ‘Signature’, a new concept model which previews the design and layout of an upcoming compact SUV from the brand. The cars are joined by the ‘Imagine by Kia’ concept car, an all-electric sports sedan which embodies Kia’s desire to create exciting low-emissions passenger cars. While each of the concepts hint at the direction Kia’s designers could take in future, each also illustrates different elements of the brand’s future model strategy. An expanding range of SUVs and crossover models has provided the impetus for Kia’s long-term sales growth around the world. The Masterpiece and Signature both provide an insight into how Kia could develop its model line-up in future, in terms of design, layout and use of technology. The ‘Imagine by Kia’ concept also previews how the brand plans to excite drivers with electrified vehicles in future, creating stunning exterior and interior design, with intelligent packaging and cutting-edge technologies. Kia Masterpiece – a rugged and robust large SUV concept The Kia Masterpiece concept makes its first public appearance, with a rugged and robust large SUV. The Masterpiece hints at how the brand could adapt its latest designs and features for the large off-road SUV segment. Like other recent Kia models, the exterior of the car is characterized by sculpted bodywork and bold lines. Combined with a purposeful SUV stance and raised body, and a powerful all-wheel drive system, its rugged looks are matched by true ‘go-anywhere’ capability. The front of the car features a new incarnation of Kia’s iconic grille, the ‘tiger nose’ – yet, extended outwards across the whole front section of the concept, with no clear boundaries between grille and LED headlamps. The design of the front of the car is echoed in the rear of the car, with signature lines at both ends of the vehicle giving the car a consistent design all round. New Signature concept previews upcoming Kia compact SUV Following the launch of the Kia SP Concept at the India’s Auto Expo 2018 in Delhi, Kia today reveals an evolution of the design, with the international debut of the Signature concept. Driven by advanced technology, the Kia SP Concept hints at the company’s plans to introduce a new small SUV for its global markets. Bold and stylish, the Signature combines sophisticated beauty, breakthrough technology, and high functionality in a smart, compact package. With a wide grille and long hood at the front, and a rear design which emphasizes stability with wide rear lamps and body lines, the Signature stands out on the road. At the front, its lamps are connected to the ‘tiger nose’ grille, with integrated daytime running lamps. Its strong shoulder line, with a glasshouse which tapers towards the rear of the car, lends the compact SUV an air of understated sportiness. The exterior is completed with a series of distinct styling features, contributing to the car’s contemporary, technical design. These include thin LED lamps at the front and rear, sharp lines pressed into the bodywork, and precise metallic details. As eye-catching as the latest Kia production cars, the Signature heralds the forthcoming arrival of a model for young trend-setters. The concept previews a production-ready compact SUV from Kia, due to be revealed for the first time later in 2019. The concept’s design will also influence future models destined for Kia’s global markets. Kia Motors Nigeria Limited said in a statement that the new products would be made available to the Nigerian market as soon as the specs for the local market are ready.