George Onyejiuwa, Owerri Governor–elect of Imo State, Emeka Ihedioha,  has constituted a Transition Technical Committee, with former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria as Chairman, Prof Ernest Ebi,  and former Aviation minister, Dr. Kema Chikwe as vice chairman. The committee, which is divided into 12 sub-committees, also has Dr. Chinedu Okpaleke as secretary. Each of the subcommittees has a chairman and secretary. The sub-committees are: Projects and Review, Finance Review and Funding Initiative, Integrated Infrastructure, Human Capital Development, Good Governance, Agriculture, Commerce and Industries, Job and Wealth Creation, Tourism and Hospitality, Talents and Opportunities, Security, Diaspora Initiatives and Owerri Town Planning, Ihedioha, who stated this, yesterday, said that committee members were carefully selected and are made up of men and women of high integrity; who are committed to the actualisation of the task of rebuilding Imo. The transition panel would be officially inaugurated tomorrow. Meanwhile, the outgoing Governor, Owelle Rochas Okorocha has began gradual relocation to his private residence in Jos, capital of Plateau State. Meanwhile, Daily Sun gathered from sources within Imo Government House that governor Okorocha has since relocated to his palatial Spibat Estate, in Amakohia, Owerri, the state capital, following the failed bid of his son-in-law, Mr. Uche Nwosu, to succeed him. According to the source who declined to be named because he was not authorised to speak on the matter, said: “Governor Rochas Okorocha has started sending his personal properties and that of members of his family to his house in Jos, Plateau state. “He started packing his properties since last week . Don’t forget that he has already moved out of the Government House, after the defeat Uche Nwosu, to his  Spibat residence.” The source added: “Today (yesterday), they moved more of the properties  to Jos and I think after the handover on May 29, he would prefer to remain in Jos, except if he is able to reclaim his Imo West senatorial district ticket from the Independent National Electoral Commission.”