The Chief Executive Officer of Wakanow.com Limited, Mr. Adebayo Adedeji has explained why his company recently introduced its Pay-Small-Small (PSS) product as part of efforts to boost travel trade in the country. Adedeji who disclosed this in Lagos said that his company introduced the new product as part of efforts to help Africans find solutions to travel related economic and financial challenges and enjoy seamless travels all year round. According to him, “In most parts of Nigeria and Africa at large, travelling is still considered a luxury because of the economic position of the populace. The fact that over 50 per cent of the Africa population live below the global poverty line and the abysmal state of the formal credit system in most developing countries, has made travel financing quite challenging. Wakanow is committed to finding lasting solutions to these travel related challenges. “Our ground-breaking travel financing product called Pay-Small-Small is a flexible instalment payment plan that gives the traveller as much as 150 percent savings on their travel expenses”, he added. Also throwing more light on the product, Wakanow Head of Marketing, Mrs. Olajumoke Bolu-Kujero said, “PSS is designed to allow travellers lock down choice travel deals by making only a minimum of 25 percent down payment of the travel cost and paying the balance in convenient instalments for up to 3 months before the travel date”. She further revealed that PSs package is for all categories of income earners. Her words: “It is a travel planning tool as well for high income earners who want to take advantage of existing travel opportunities without tying down cash needed for other business or personal commitments. Pay-Small-Small affords everyone the means to conveniently plan and pay for their travel no matter their earning capacity”. “This innovative solution is Wakanow’s way of facilitating travel goals and dreams within and beyond Africa. To sign up for PSS, visit www.wakanow.com and select Pay Small Small at checkout. You can also speak with our travel consultants or chat with us via our interactive WhatsApp channel. Wakanow is West Africa’s leading, full-service online travel company with offices in Nigeria, and in many parts of the world, Dubai, Ghana, Kenya, as well as in the United Kingdom.