Fred Itua, Abuja and  Abdulrazaq Mungadi, Gombe A former governor of Gombe State,  Senator Mohammed Danjuma Goje, yesterday announced his intention not to contest election again. Goje, who disclosed this during an empowerment programme: “Goje Empowerment Programme” at the Pantami, Stadium, said he would, however, remain in politics. “Therefore, having contested and won all seven elections in addition to being a minister for the country, I strongly believe that Allah has been extremely kind to me. I believe not many Nigerians are so lucky and blessed. “It is in this light foregoing and having reached an advanced age, I wish to formally inform you that I  have decided not to contest any election again. For the avoidance of doubt, I will not contest any election at all levels. “My love for the people of the state will not allow permit me to retire from politics. For I will continue to stand with you to ensure the development of our state.” But he said he would give younger ones opportunity to also grow and showcase their God-given talent, especially in this digital age. “However, this does not mean that I will retire from politics; far from that. I will continue to be active card carrying member of the APC and participate in all political activities at all levels except that I will not contest any election.” Amidst thousands of supporters, the  former governor recalled how he ventured into politics. “I  have had rare opportunity of contesting and winning seven elections conducted at various National Electoral Commission. “In the second Republic during Shagari’s government, as a very young man, I contested and won election into the Bauchi House of Assembly, in 1998. I also contested and won election as a senator for Gombe Central district under defunct UNCP during Abacha’s regime. “I then in 2003 contested and won the governorship election of Gombe. I was reelected in 2007. In 2011, 2015 and 2019, I contested and won three senatorial elections for Gombe Central district.” He added: I have every reason to thank Allah (SWT), the people of my primary constituency (Pindiga Emirate), Akko Local Government, Gombe State and indeed the entire country for giving me the very rare opportunity to rise from grass to grace as it is commonly said.” He said he would  continue to support Gombe Governor, Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya and his government. “At the national level, I will continue to be loyal and supportive of His Excellency, the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, Muhammadu Buhari,  and the government. Of course, I will continue to be active and loyal member of the National Assembly under the leadership of the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan. My loyalty to the part under the chairmanship of Adams Oshiomole is also unquestionable.” Goje, who chairs the Senate Committee on Marine Transport, distributed empowerment materials to leaders of the APC in the state. The items included 12 vehicles, 90 tricycles, 114 motorcycles and N19.4 million.