A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Alhaji Kabiru Adjoto, yesterday, said he will open a can of worms that will make Edo people to stone APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, on the streets He said the can of worms would seal the political fate of the Edo State former governor. Adjoto also vowed to organise a national protest, tagged: ‘Oshiomhole Must Go’, against the former Edo governor in the New Year. The immediate past speaker of the state House of Assembly, who told party members at his country home at Ikakumo in Igarraland in Edo, said the protest will kick off early next year with thousands of corroborators across the 36 states of the federation. “The protest will be unabated until Oshiomhole honourably resigns before he buries the APC,’’ Adjoto said. The APC chieftain, who is currently the special adviser to Governor Godwin Obaseki, said he would soon open “a can of worms that would seal the political fate of Oshiomhole.’’ According to him, the can of worms when opened, will make Edo people to stone the former Edo governor, who is currently battling his political survival in the ruling APC in Edo. “As I promised a few months ago, I am set to open horrible a can of worms that will make Edo people to stone Oshiomhole on the street as we enter the New Year.’’ Adjoto, however, did not disclose the `sins’ of Oshiomhole that would make the masses to rise against their former two-term governor. Oshiomhole has been pitted in a political battle against Obaseki as the countdown to the governorship election in the state draws near. Edo State is scheduled for governorship poll in August next year, in an election expected to be characterised by back-stabbing, betrayals and violence. Adjoto also spoke on the speculation that Obaseki was planning to defect to the People’s Democratic Party, describing the speculation as baseless. “The governor will enjoy the ‘privilege of first refusal’ during the forthcoming APC governorship primary as enjoyed by Oshiomhole in 2012,’’ he said. The former speaker said the APC national chairman was driving himself into “irredeemable political oblivion because of sheer greed and hypocrisy.” He said Oshiomhole had played god severally by hypocritically reversing himself on principles that fetched him enormous political fortunes. “Oshiomhole became governor on the heels of fighting godfathers and the tenets of one man, one vote. “He has now turned himself into not just a godfather but an untamed emperor, who is fully out to ruin the gains of democracy. “He has also, at different fora, ridiculed the nation’s judiciary which gave him the ladder to climb to power,” Adjoto said. At the event, the Woman Leader of the APC, Ward 7 in Akoko-Edo, Mrs Victoria Balogun, described Adjoto as a grassroots politician with a cult of following. She lauded Adjoto for making positive impacts on the lives of the people of his community, assuring the former speaker that women in Akoko-Edo would support the re-election of Obaseki.