For Kiki Okewale, one of Nigeria’s Queen of Blings, her understanding of luxury and unique representation of royalty with elegant quality are some of the reasons distinguished women keep coming to her for their style needs. The popular style icon and CEO of Hope Fashion’s distinctive stock and creations, have seen her climbed to the top of the fashion and clothing business in Nigeria within a short period of time as she boasts of several women of class and elegance as clients; from A-list celebrities and Nollywood icons, to top women politicians and business leaders. Just last April, Kiki became the first and only Nigerian, nay African designer to showcase at the Dubai Fashion Week. Another history was made penultimate week at the just-concluded ‘Thai Silk Festival’ held in Bangkok, Thailand where Kiki dazzled the world with her Majesty Queen Sirikit, the Queen Mother. Kiki, the recipient of several style and achievement awards was at the Grand Finale of Thai Silk Festival at the Eden Zone Central held between November 18 and November 22, 2019. The International Thai Silk Fashion Week was organized at the behest of Queen Sirikit by the Thai Tourists Assistance Foundation, in collaboration with members of the foreign diplomatic corps in Bangkok, as part of the annual ‘Celebration of Silk’ project to showcase modern and traditional Thai silk and designs. This year’s fashion exhibition involved 43 International fashion designers from over 60 countries, showcasing their collections, made from Thai Silk. Kiki, is the only couturier from Nigeria who participated at the special event. At Thailand fashion event, Kiki was the special guest of royalty; she was invited by the blue-blooded Princess Sheikha Hend Al Qassemi of the Emirate, who is a descendant of the royal family of Sharjah, and both the organizer of the Dubai Fashion Week, as well as the proprietress of ‘Velvet’, the popular fashion and lifestyle magazine. By this latest feat, Kiki has authored another chapter in her fascinating catalogue of firsts by blazing the trail as the first Nigerian to be so honoured and recognized in the far Eastern Country.