Godwin Tsa, Abuja Minister of Justice and  Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami, (SAN) has disclosed that 22 former Governors are currently being investigated on money laundering related charges. Speaking at a media parley with the National Association of Judiciary Correspondents (NAJUC) in Abuja, yesterday, Malami described President Muhammadu Buhari’s fight against corruption as “total, comprehensive and dispassionate devoid of any political or ethnic sentiments and inclination”. The Minister equally revealed that many serving Senators are currently under Federal Government’s investigative radar, while noting that corruption undermines national security, creates huge economic damage and violates human development. Malami  said President Buhari would leave no stone unturned in the effort to recover wealth stolen from Nigeria either by individuals or corporate entities. He noted that three former Governors have already been convicted and are currently serving various jail terms for corruption-related crimes they committed while in office, adding that the Economic and Financial Crime Commission, EFCC, had between 2015 and 2019, secured 1, 636 convictions of persons involved in corruption-related offences. Malami said: “I am delighted to host Judiciary Correspondents as part of the end of the year briefing on the monumental activities and historic achievements of the Ministry and its parastatals. Occasions like this one serve as avenues for introspection and unveiling action plans, future projects and strategic initiatives for consolidating the Ministry’s drive-in Justice sector enhancement for the forthcoming year and beyond. Members of the Judiciary Correspondents have been contributing tremendously in their reportage of the activities of the Ministry and its parastatals. “You report to the general public the enviable contributions of the teaming members of the Ministry that culminated into landslide accomplishments. “I would like to acknowledge the fact that that Judiciary Correspondents have been very supportive in providing positive and adequate publicity for the Ministry’s activities. “I am optimistic that the meeting is essential in enhancing the working relationship between the Ministry and the Media. The imperative of having a committed leadership that respects the rule of law and above all has zero tolerance to corruption and corrupt tendencies remains the fulcrum upon which development revolves. “Like the President always states, if we don’t make effort to kill corruption, corruption will kill us and when corrupt monies find haven, they will begin to fight back. Thus, Nigeria and Africa at large can only move forward if we resist corruption in all forms. The present administration has been fighting corruption in all its ramified manifestations including legislative framework, institutional infrastructure and the adoption of effective preventive measures against corruption and putting in place mechanisms for the management of recovered stolen assets. “To this end, we have created a central database for recovered stolen assets which is under the supervision of the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice. “The Government made concerted efforts that see to the boosting of the institutions and agencies responsible for the fight against corruption; Ministry of Justice, Independent Corrupt and other related Offences Commission (ICPC), Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC), Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU), Code of Conduct Bureau, among others. Nigeria has taken anti-corruption measures in tackling cybercrime, money laundering, oil bunkering and false assets declaration among others.