Management of Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital Complex (OAUTHC), Ile-Ife, has renamed the Paediatric Ward 11 as Prof. Jerome Elusiyan Ward to immortalise the late chairman of the institution’s Medical Advisory Committee (CMAC). The renaming of the ward was announced during a commendation service held for Elusiyan at the institution’s Chapel of Grace, yesterday. Chief Medical Director of the hospital,  Prof. Victor Adetiloye, in his tribute, said the deceased lived a fulfilled and impactful life and deputised for him from April 2018 till his death. Adetiloye said Elusiyan was loyal,  devoted, honest, diligent and an exemplary leader whose death was a great loss. A member of the Ife Community Landlord Association, Mr. Olaniyi Ogunleye,  testified that Elusiyan was kind, generous and participated actively and financially in the affairs of the association. Ogunleye said the deceased was humble and, in spite of his busy schedule, had often attended their meetings regularly,  saying he would be greatly missed. In his sermon, Pastor M. A. Oyelami urged Christians to prepare to meet the Lord and added that the deceased’s death was a colossal loss to his family, OAUTHC,  Nigerian Medical Association, Paediatrics, Okegbo community and Nigeria at large. The cleric stated further that the country had lost a rare gem, saying the deceased spent his life to serve God and humanity. “One day would be one day when it will be your turn, minimise gathering worldly materials, but have your treasures in heaven where moth would not devour it. “We are all passengers going to the market, we have to go back home one day, therefore live day by day in the consciousness that death is certain,” he said. Oyelami decried the level of insecurity in the country and appealed to the current administration to find solution to all the challenges facing the nation. Elusiyan until his death was a consultant Paediatric Endocrinologist and CMAC of the teaching hospital. He would be buried in his home town at Oke-Igbo, Ondo State, today. The deceased was murdered while returning to Ile-Ife from Ambrose Ali University on December 13.