Romanus Ugwu, Abuja The Department of State Services (DSS) has said that it has uncovered syndicated plots by certain elements to destabilise the country with protests at major Nigeria cities during the yuletide. The service, in the statement signed by its Public Relations Officer, Peter Afunanya, however warned parents, school authorities to prevail on their wards and students from identifying with the troublemakers. It further expressed the readiness of the service and other sister agencies to deal, decisively with those determined to foment trouble, assuring Nigerians a peaceful celebration of the yuletide. According to the statement; “DSS has uncovered syndicated plots by some undesirable groups to cause a breakdown of law and order in various parts of the country including Abuja. “The arrangement is to instigate protests, mass action and violence with a view to causing anarchy and destabilizing the country. “These predetermined actions have been designed to take place simultaneously in the major cities across the geopolitical zones in the coming weeks. This is more so that the plotters are also targeting the yuletide seasons to accomplish their sinister motives. “Considering the implications of these on public safety and national security, the Service wishes to warn the anti-democratic elements responsible for these heinous plots to desist forthwith from their inglorious acts. “Consequently, parents are advised to rein in their wards and enjoin them not to allow themselves to be used to foment trouble. Similarly, Heads of academic and public institutions are to warn their students and employees respectively from engaging in any untoward activity against public order. “The Service and other sister agencies are at alert and will ensure that peace and security are maintained in all parts of the country before, during and after the festive periods. “Law abiding citizens are equally encouraged to go about their normal businesses without fear but report any suspected persons or breach of peace to the nearest security office to them,” the statement read.