The All Progressives Congress (APC) has assured Nigerians that contrary to false alarm from the Peoples Democratic Party  (PDP) that the federal government has laid landmines next year, they will reap more dividends of democracy next year.
Joining other Nigerians to usher in the 2020 New Year, in a statement signed by the APC’s National Publicity Secretary,  Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, hinged it’s optimism on the return to the January-December budget cycle.
It argued that the APC government is vigorously tackling and solving the social, economic and security challenges our country faces one after the other.
“With our country’s landmark return to the January-December budget cycle – a feat achieved by the APC-led National Assembly and Executive after 16 years of the PDP failure, Nigerians are assured that the ongoing massive infrastructural development covering the rail, road, agriculture, aviation, port, education and health sectors would be given further fillip.
“The President Muhammadu Buhari government is vigorously tackling and solving the social, economic and security challenges our country faces one after the other. Government’s successes in plugging revenue leakages, checking violent extremism, oil sector reforms, anti-corruption, economic diversification, curbing waste, infrastructure development among other achievements are profound testament.
“The party assures all compatriots that the faithful execution of policies and programmes of this current administration would be further intensified in this New Year.
“We acknowledge and hold dear the trust and faith Nigerians have placed in the APC-led Federal Government. We will not let Nigerians down. We urge Nigerians to also play their part by cooperating with the government to achieve its development plans for our shared progress.
“Finally, to our teeming members and supporters, our great party remains a progressive, strong, formidable and popular political unit delivering pro-people policies and repositioning our country through our elected and appointed officials at federal, state and local government levels.
“We urge our members to support and cooperate with the recently-constituted National Reconciliation Committee which is empowered to address grieviances of party members and resolve existing conflicts, all with a view to fostering unity and oneness within the party across the country,” the statement read.