Romanus Ugwu, Abuja The Director-General, Voice of Nigeria (VON), Osita Okechukwu, has said that though his suspension by the All Progressives Congress (APC) was fake news, he has, however, forgiven the party chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, of his “transgressions”. Reacting to the lifting of his purported suspension by the party’s national leadership, the VON DG in a statement he issued in Abuja on Tuesday, said that it could only take a character like Oshiomhole to suspend party members in clear breach of the constitution of the APC. Okechukwu, who insisted that he was never suspended in the first place, noted that “instead of drowning Oshiomhole searching for straw to cling on, he should not only learn that rule of law governs our great party, but should rush home and quench the inferno he had simulated in Edo State, as charity has to begin at home.” Titled “I was never suspended by APC,” the APC member from Eke Ward, Enugu State, noted in his statement: “May I appreciate and thank immensely all those who thronged my office, those who via phone calls, SMS and WhatsApp messages congratulated me over the purported lifting of my suspension from our great party, as announced by the chairman of APC, Comrade Oshiomhole. May Almighty God bless you all. “My dear compatriots, for the avoidance of doubt, sincerely one could have kept quiet, as silence is the best answer; but from the numerous congratulations, it seems that the publics is unaware that the purported suspension was a big fake news, as it is only Comrade Oshiomhole who can suspend party members in clear breach of the constitution of APC. “However, may I as a Christian, forgive the drowning Comrade Oshiohmole over his transgressions for my purported sin was that one came hard on him over his misconduct in the 2019 APC’s primary elections, where he rigged me out in Enugu West Senatorial District. “My election was timed to kill two birds, one to send Senator Ike Ekweremadu packing and two to garner 25% for President Muhammadu Buhari in Enugu State, an objective Oshiohmole stymied. “Comrade Oshiomhole regrettably violated the Constitution of our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) which discipline as enshrined in Article 21 of the constitution states interalia: “The power to discipline party members, which is exercised subject to fair hearing, is granted only to the respective Executives Committees of the Ward, LGA, State and National, by virtue of the first paragraph of Article 21 of the APC constitution. “The National Working Committee (NWC) is not listed as one of the Executive Committees by the constitution and is therefore not bestowed with the power to discipline a party member. There is no denying the fact that suspension is one of the disciplinary measures listed under Article 21 (D) of the constitution. “The NWC is also not listed in Article 21 (B) (vi) (a) – (e) as one of the adjudicatory bodies with regard to compliant or allegation against any member of the party. Also the powers granted to the National Working Committee under Article 13.4 (i) – (xvii) of the APC constitution does not include power to discipline any member of the party. “From the above, my brothers and sisters, friends and well wishers, my humble self and indeed His Excellencies Rotimi Akeredolu, Rochas Okorocha and Ibukunle Amosun and Pastor Usani Usani were never suspended by our wards, LGAs, states or national Executive Committee as envisaged by the APC’s Constitution. “Consequently, the drowning Comrade Adams Oshiomhole instead of searching for straw to cling on should not only learn that rule of law governs our great party, but should rush home and quench the inferno he has simulated in Edo State, as charity has to begin at home.”