Molly Kilete, Abuja All  is now set for the 2019 Chief of Army Staff’s Annual Conference billed for Kaduna. The conference which is scheduled to take place at the International Trade Fair Complex, Kaduna, would be attended by former army chiefs, principal staff officers, Corps, Formations and Operations Commanders, Commandants of Nigerian Army and Corps Schools among others. The weeklong conference with its theme “Application of the Cutting Edge of the Nigerian Army in Tackling Contemporary Security Challenges” is expected to be declared open by President Muhammadu Buhari. The Conference would afford the army authorities the opportunity to appraise its performance in 2019 and also make projections for subsequent year, with a view to repositioning the service for better performance in the discharge of its constitutional roles. Acting Director, Army Public Relations, Colonel saghir Musa, who made this known in a statement listed some of the activities lined up for the conference to include a military exhibition of some products manufactured by the Nigerian Army, operational briefs by various field commanders and medical outreach programme in selected communities in Kaduna State. Musa, in the statement said, “The Chief of Army Staff’s Annual Conference 2019 will take place at the Kaduna International Trade Fair Complex, Zaria Road, Kawo, Kaduna, Kaduna State from Monday 2 – Friday 6 December 2019. The Conference which has its theme as “Application of the Cutting Edge of the Nigerian Army in Tackling Contemporary Security Challenges” will be declared open by the President, Commander-in-Chief, of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday the 3rd of December, 2019 at the Trade Fair Complex Zaria Road, Kawo, Kaduna by 0900hrs (09:00am). “The Conference will afford the participants the opportunity to appraise the performance of the Nigerian Army during the year 2019 and also make projections for subsequent year, with a view to repositioning the Nigerian Army for better performance in the discharge of its constitutional roles. “Part of the activities lined up for the conference include, a military exhibition of some of the products produced or manufactured by the Nigerian Army, operational briefs by various field commanders and medical outreach programme in selected communities in Kaduna State. Principal Staff Officers from Army Headquarter, Corps, Formations and Operations Commanders, Commandants of Nigerian Army. and Corps Schools among others are expected to be in attendance”.