In preparation for the planned revocation of plots of land situated in serviced areas of the Federal Capital City (FCC), the FCT Administration has inaugurated a task team to holistically verify all identified undeveloped plots of land where infrastructure has already been provided. The FCT Director of Land Administration, Adamu Jibrin Hussaini inaugurated the Task Team on Wednesday in his office at the Abuja Geographic Information Systems, No. 4, Peace Drive, Central Business District, Abuja. The Task Team which is projected to round up its job by the end of December 2019, is expected to physically visit all such plots in the serviced districts. The team is also mandated to back its finding with pictorial evidences to ensure that allottees are not unjustly treated. The Director enjoined the Task Team to be thorough in the discharge of this onerous work and should be guided by the zeal of patriotism it deserves. Hussaini called on the Task Team to be dedicated and committed in carrying out the verification exercise; stressing that plots of land cannot be left fallow in the city center where government has expended billions of Naira to provide the needed infrastructure. He cautioned the Task Team to also be guided by the principle of fairness and justice; insisting that there are no sacred cows as the FCT Administration is determined to rid the city of undeveloped plots in and around the city. According to him, the Administration will conduct this exercise following due process; noting that all grey areas will be taken into consideration to ensure that no innocent person is made to bear the brunt unnecessarily. The director insisted that the administration has carried out advertisement in national dailies in line with the directive of the Federal Capital Territory  Executive Committee (FCT EXCO) to the Department of Land Administration to commence the process of revocation of titles in respect of undeveloped plot (s) of land in serviced districts of the Federal Capital City, Abuja. Hussaini further explained that the Administration has given a grace period by extending the dateline till February 2, 2020 to ensure total compliance by affected allottees.