Olakunle Olofioye A security expert, Dr. Ona Ekhomu has condemned the hiring of 150 Cameroonian vigilantes to combat Boko Haram in Borno State. He described the move by the state governor as a huge mistake, which is likely to increase security threats in Nigeria’s North East. In a press statement issued in Lagos, Dr.  Ekhomu  who is the President of the Association of Industrial Security and Safety Operators of Nigeria (AISSON) said that the Borno Governor did not have the powers to recruit foreigners to conduct internal security operations in the state. He said that there was no legal backing for foreign vigilantes who will be armed to patrol Borno State when they are not part of the Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) or part of a recognized military alliance. Ekhomu, who is the first chartered security professional in Nigeria, said that the decision  to  hire  the  foreign  vigilantes  by  the  Borno  governor raises  serious sovereignty issues for Nigeria. “If we say the military cannot defend the population in Borno State  from  Boko  Haram  insurgents,  then  the  political  legitimacy  and authority of the Buhari government is questioned,” he added. He  continued:  “When  the  Nigerian  state  is  unable  to  fulfill  the  Westphalia conception  of  sovereignty,  then  international  human  rights  issues  such  as  the Responsibility to Protect (R2P) kick in.” Ekhomu warned that giving the Kesh-Kesh vigilantes freedom to patrol the Borno countryside would increase  their  local knowledge  of  the  area and  enable  them mount subsequent attacks when they no longer benefit from the largesse of Borno Government. Said he: “Like most West Africans, the Cameroonians don’t like us (Nigerians)  and  once  this  charade  of  fighting  insurgency  stops,  these  same vigilantes will victimize Borno villagers”. Ekhomu  reminded  the  Borno  governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum  that  Nigeria  and  Cameroon  still  have serious security issues in the Bakassi Peninsula. He urged Gov. Zulum to keep his promise of hiring 10,000 Borno youths as vigilantes to combat Boko Haram. He said that if the Borno vigilantes were trained and well-equipped, they could fight alongside the Nigerian Military, Civilian JTF and local Borno hunters to address the threat of Boko Haram. He noted further    that  it  was  the  crisis  mismanagement  by  a  former Borno governor of the extra-judicial  killing  of  17  Boko  Haram  members  at  Customs Roundabout, Maiduguri on June 11th 2009 that started the insurgency. He cautioned against adopting  intuitive  decisions  that  would  exacerbate  the  Boko  Haram insurgency and  for  proper  analysis  of  decisions  before  they  are  made.