The Board of Directors of LAPO Microfinance Bank has appointed Mrs. Cynthia Ikponmwosa as its Managing Director designate. She succeeds Dr. Godwin Ehigiamusoe, the founder/CEO Lift Above Poverty Organization and LAPO Microfinance Bank Ltd. Chief Ede Osayande, the chairman of the bank describes Mrs. Ikponmwosa as a foundation member of the LAPO story in its commitment to social and economic empowerment of the members of low-income households. He noted that the Board has absolute confidence in Mrs. Ikponmwosa’s capacity to build on the accomplishments of the Microfinance bank. He added that Mrs. Ikponmwosa, in the new position, will be offered all the necessary support needed to deliver value to all stakeholders. Mrs. Ikponmwosa joined Lift Above Poverty Organization (LAPO NGO) the precursor of LAPO Microfinance Bank in 2001 as a Senior Programme Officer and has played several key roles within the Group. She provided leadership for the transformation of LAPO into a regulated microfinance bank between 2008 and 2010. She led the Corporate Secretariat and recently as Executive Director, Corporate Services. She holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in English from the Ambrose Alli University (previously known as Edo State University) and a Master of Laws in Corporate Governance and Law from the University of Portsmouth, United Kingdom. Mrs. Ikponmwosa has attended several senior management development programs. The appointment is subject to approval of the Central Bank of Nigeria. Meanwhile L APO MfB has obtained ISO 27001:2013 certification for Information Security Management by Professional Evaluation Certification Board, (PECB). The ISO 27001:2013 of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) standard specifies the requirements for establishing, implementing, maintaining, and continually improving an Information Security Management System (ISMS) within the organization. The certification is a testimony to LAPO Microfinance Bank’s commitment and adherence to the highest standards in information security management.