Uche Usim, Abuja Executive Chairman Federal Inland Revenue Service, Muhammad Nami, has unveiled a new Tax Clearance Certificate (TCC) regime meant to simplify the process of obtaining it. The agency has also offered a 30- day window to enable taxpayers, obtain the TCC. In a public notice personally signed by Nam, he explained the entire package was designed to make things easy for taxpayers across the country. Titled “FACILITATING 2020 TAX CLEARANCE CERTIFICATE (TCC) ISSUANCE, the notice was issued to assist taxpayers meet their obligations as they might need TCC. The FIRS boss noted that the offer to ease issuance of  TCC was in accordance with the provisions of Section 101 (1) of CITA LFN 2004 and in conformity with Self-Assessment Regulation, 2011. He warned though that FIRS will not fail to invoke the provisions of the  law, including enforcement and imposition of lien should it be apparent that a taxpayer has misled the FIRS to issue a TCC. The full text of the Public Notice reads: “Following the numerous complaints received from our esteemed taxpayers with respect to difficulties encountered before obtaining Tax Clearance Certificate (TCC) and the fact that taxpayers need TCC to enable them to, inter alia, seek and obtain contracts and loans, renew permits, registrations, franchises, agreements and/or licenses that will invariably generate revenue from which taxes will be paid, Management has looked into the above complaints and has taken steps to ease the process of obtaining TCC. “Consequently, notice is hereby given that the Service has put in place machinery to issue 2020 TCC for all eligible taxpayers from 2nd January to 31st January, 2020. “The Service may not hesitate to use enforcement activities including imposition of  lien on bank accounts of such defaulting companies to recover any outstanding debts when it  discovers that the taxpayer has misled the Service in her duty to observe tax compliance. “The issuance of  TCC to ease the burden  of taxpayers is in line with the provisions of Section 101 (1) of CITA LFN 2004 and in conformity with Self-Assessment Regulation, 2011. “Taxpayers are therefore encouraged to take advantage of this initiative and apply for their 2020 TCC, as soon as possible”  he noted.