The Season 6 of the First City Monument Bank (FCMB) bumper reward scheme tagged ‘FCMB Millionaire Promo’, has come to an exciting end as 16 customers became millionaires by winning cash ranging from N1million to N2million at the grand finale draw. In addition, 2,560 others won LED televisions, generating sets, decoders, tablets and smart phones. At the end of the promo, which ran from March to October, the winners emerged through electronic selection of all qualified customers at the colourful grand finale draw held at the four regions and 19 zones that make up FCMB across Nigeria on November 27, 2019. It had in attendance officials of the National Lottery Regulatory Commission, Consumer Protection Council, thousands of customers of the bank and other top dignitaries. The first draw of the promo was held in May, followed by the second in July and the third in September. At each of the draws, 644 qualified customers won cash of N1million and other exciting prizes. At the Lagos grand finale regional draw, Obiajulu Ujunwa won the star prize of N2million, while Nabegu Bushira smiled home with the same amount at the Abuja & North regional draw which took place in Abuja. Nwachukwu Chigozie emerged winner of N2million at the South-East & South-South regional draw held in Umuahia, Abia State, just as Yetunde Olubanwo got the reward of the same amount at the South-West regional draw in Ijebu-Ode, Ogun state. The winners were unanimous in commending the bank for sustaining and boosting its support to customers through various empowerment opportunities, including the millionaire promo. One of the winners of N2million, Obiajulu Ujunwa, said “FCMB has positively changed how the rest of the year turns out  for me and my family. My heart is completely filled with joy! I would never have guessed that I would be ending this year as a millionaire. But as you must have now heard, I am the newest millionaire in town. And it’s all because of this amazing bank. God bless FCMB and all its endeavours”.