The Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) is threatening to drag its suspended president, Ibrahim Shehu Gusau, to the Nigerian antigraft agencies, the EFCC and the ICPC, for possible forgery over the five-year deal signed with sports wear manufacturers, PUMA. Daily Sunsports/Sporting Sun gathered that the federa- tion is considering the action following revelations made at the AFN’s alleged illegal congress in Awka, Anambra State, on Wednesday. In the communiqué is- sued at the end of the congress, which majority of AFN board members have declared as unconstitutional, Gusau revealed that he and the Secretary General of the federation at the time, Ademu Elijah, sealed the deal on behalf of the federation. Resolution xi of the communiqué reads thus: “The Congress approved the sponsorship deal with giant sports apparel manufacturers, PUMA, (2019-2022) as negotiated and executed by the president and Secretary General on behalf of the federation.” But acting president of the federation, Olamide George, said the AFN would investigate this claim, especially against the cry by the former secretary general, Ademu, that he knew nothing about the contract. “Ademu told the AFN investigative panel set up by the sports ministry in October after our trip to Doha for the World Athletics Championships that he was not aware of any negotiations with PUMA. He also included this in his handover note despite the fact that the AFN constitution makes him the custodian of the federation’s documents, records and properties,” said George. The AFN is convinced Ademu’s signature must have been forged and the federation is determined to unravel the mystery. “We are beginning to think that all correspondences with World Athletics (IAAF) since April, when Ademu (the Secretary General) claimed Gusau changed the password of the federation’s email, must have been forged. This is because World Athletics addresses most of its mails to the secretary general and such mails are replied with the Secretary Genera’s signature. So, who signed those mails and who signed the Puma contract? These are the questions Mr. Gusau must answer before the EFCC and the ICPC,” said George, who revealed further that the AFN would invite the former secretary general to authenticate his claims to both the AFN investigative panel set up by the sports minister in October and his handover notes.