TONY JOHN, Port Harcourt Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, has declared that any official indicted over the collapsed seven-storey building on Woji Road in New GRA, Port Harcourt, would be duly prosecuted. Speaking during the presentation of reports by the Judicial Commission of Inquiry investigating the incident, and the Judicial Commission of Inquiry to investigate the management and affairs of Integrated Medical Industries Limited (Auto Syringe Factory) at the Government House, Port Harcourt, Governor Wike stated that his administration would implement the reports of the two commissions. He announced the setting up of a seven-man White Paper Committee to take immediate steps for the implementation of the recommendations of the two commissions of inquiry. He said: “Let me assure you that we wouldn’t have wasted our time and resources setting up the commissions of inquiry. The reports will be duly implemented. “Anybody indicted for the collapsed building will face the law. If you are connected to the deaths of people, we will prosecute you for murder.” He maintained that any government official serving or retired who was indicted, would face the full weight of the law. Governor Wike noted that the Rivers State Government would take direct measures to re-structure and professionalise the state Ministry of Urban Development and Physical Planning. On the Integrated Medical Industries Limited (Auto Syringe Factory), Governor Wike said that government could not be taken for granted. READ ALSO: 2019: Drama as opposition members endorse APC candidates in Ekiti Chairman of the Judicial Commission of Inquiry investigating the seven-storey building, Justice Adolphus Enebeli, while presenting his report, said the building approval process at the Ministry of Urban Development and Physical Planning was a mangled mess of procedures. He said that the gory details of the videos were enough to force out tears from the strongest of men. Justice Enebeli said from research findings, the current commission of inquiry was the most incisive x-ray of the operation of the Ministry of Urban Development and Physical Planning. He said past efforts were ad-hoc in nature. He urged Governor Wike not to allow the report to be confined to the dustbin of inaction, in deference to those who died in the building collapse. Chairman of the Judicial Commission of Inquiry investigating the Management and Affairs of Integrated Medical Industries Limited, Justice Constance Douyle Green, said the findings and recommendations of her commission were contained in a four-volume report. While hoping that the Rivers State governor would implement the report, Justice Green said the recommendations were in line with its 10-point terms of reference.