James Ojo, Abuja As Nigerians elect the next president and their representatives at the National Assembly, tomorrow, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has reminded the electorate that the future of the country depends on their choice. Stressing the importance of choices made in a statement he personally signed, NLC President, Ayuba Wabba, said  the survival of the country, and the pride of place Nigeria seeks to occupy in the comity of nations, should be considered before casting the  vote. “The moment of truth has come and we must, of necessity, perform our civic duty in fulfillment of our beliefs or in betrayal of them. Our conduct  will reveal our true identity, betray our intentions and test our claim to nationhood. “We, therefore, challenge you, the candidates, politicians, supporters, security personnel and the Independent National Electoral Commission to be of utmost good behaviour and  ethical standard as well as  conduct yourselves with civility, humility, truth and abide by the rule of law. “We urge you to remember the phrase that, the victory or loss of any candidate is not worth the blood of any Nigerian, not even the blood of a chicken! We want to remind all of us that  nobody’s ambition is worth a square millimeter of the Nigerian territory. “We similarly want to inform all and sundry that we cannot hold  political offices without peace or country.  We appeal to all, to note that when we sponsor or stoke violence, we cannot predict its course or end. We should, therefore, do all that is necessary to prevent it,” he said. The NLC boss further urged Nigerians to note that election is not war and should, accordingly, tone down rhetoric or blood pressure. “In this contest, there must be losers and winners and, we do not need to rig to win or snatch ballot boxes or cause mayhem to be reckoned with.” He also said all the candidates have the potential to win or to lose, which is a decision of not the candidates but the electorate, hence, it is infantile for some candidates to assume they cannot lose. NLC urged INEC to be fair, impartial and just to all parties and contestants since the  onus rests on them to conduct free, fair and credible elections and, in the process, earn the confidence of the electorate.