 The leader of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, has said that he is not working for President Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election or former Vice President and People’s Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar in next Saturday’s election but he is in total support of a referendum for restoration of Biafra. Kanu in a Radio Biafra broadcast denied insinuation that he was working for Buhari against Atiku, said that he had never supported any candidate in Nigeria because he never believed in Nigeria but in Biafra restoration. He said: “When I said Buhari was dead and replaced by a double, an imposter, Jubril al-Sudani from Sudan. Lai Mohammed and APC machinery said Nnamdi Kanu has been bought over by PDP; he was working for the opposition and had been paid millions of dollars to disparage and smear the name of Muhammadu Buhari and ridicule Nigeria in the eyes of the international community. “Now that I have said the simple verifiable truth that Atiku Abubakar is a Cameroonian by birth but became a Nigerian by choice (referendum). PDP are up in arms saying Nnamdi Kanu signed a pact with the APC-led Federal government and is working for APC to deplete the votes of South East whilst he’s far away in London.” “These PDP e-rats and their Alimajiri APC counterparts remind me of the stupefying ignorance of Jihadists all over the world. When you catch them perpetrating their usual atrocity they tell you it’s Israel and the West sponsoring terror attacks against their own citizens. They never confront the truth starring them in the face. How twisted, perverted and ignorant they are. “Every political party in the country is all Fulani owned. Fulani conquered Hausa and Hausa helped them to conquer parts of Yorubaland as such. We IPOB don’t have any business in Nigerian presidential elections. “It was this same Atiku they are dying for today that joined the same late Buhari they want IPOB to vote out to chase Jonathan out of Aso Rock. How many times will a Fulani rule Nigeria? How many times will people allow Fulani-only presidential candidates? What type of god created these PDP e-rats? I asked a question on my page which nobody has been able to answer to date. “What do you think other Nigerians will say, especially Yoruba, if Apapa Wharf and Tin Can Island were shut down and every maritime trade moved to Calabar and Igweocha? “Do you think Fulani caliphate will allow another ethnic group to rule Nigeria the same number of years as themselves? “What did these e-rats do when IPOB was labelled a terrorist group or you have all forgotten? “Our boycott started since 2014 when Atiku joined Buhari in APC to humiliate Jonathan out of office. If this wretched band of e-rats weren’t able to remove certificateless-dead Buhari, what can they do to IPOB. We shall teach them a lesson they will never forget. “They came to fight IPOB because I spoke the truth. If they invest all the money they stole while in government in a media war against IPOB, they will end up losing it. If the might of the Nigerian state and international media conspiracy could not defeat IPOB, how much less this band of self-loathing reprobates. “They may have learnt the use of multiple fake accounts from expelled saboteurs but they are still new to this game. “Sometimes one is left to wonder the type of education or knowledge people acquire in Nigeria. Even though education is a programme, but common sense is enough to bring this matter to rest. Party politics under the present constitutional arrangement in Nigeria, Igbo, Ijaw or Yoruba presidency is not the solution. “A complete and total overhaul of the stinking system is what is required. Understanding the word ‘slave’ and what it connotes will help us appreciate the mess we are in. “Aguiyi Ironsi was the military head of state; he was Igbo but that didn’t stop the massacre of millions of Igbo people in the North. Jonathan was a president for six years; Obasanjo was for over eight years; in the whole run, what happened? “What will make any sane person think that political party will solve your problem in a despotic and totalitarian system such as you have in Nigeria? Do people know what democracy is all about? The government of the people by the people and for the people anchored on the supremacy of the rule of law. “Buhari cannot even obey the law. Nigerians don’t even know what law is. If they do, why would they not know that their own constitution under which the current elections are being conducted made it explicitly clear that unless you are born in Nigeria you cannot stand for the office of the presidency. Where was Atiku born? Then why is he contesting? “The same issue applies to Jubril who is standing in for the late Buhari. Where is his WAEC certificate? This is why I call Nigeria a Zoo. People are not interested in the finer details of the law. That is why Onnoghen is suffering today. “When they came after me nobody complained. They went after Dasuki the judiciary was quiet. They finally went after El-Zakzaky. Today they are going after judges because the system is rotten,” Kanu stated. 