Timothy Olanrewaju, Maiduguri A group of All Progressive Congress (APC) members in Yobe States has kicked against the defection of the state chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to the ruling party in the state. The group under the auspices of Concerned APC stakeholders in a statement by its leader, Adamu Nguru, maintained that the defection of the ex-PDP chieftain, Alhaji Sani, Inuwa Nguru, to the ruling APC few days to elections was for personal interest rather than that of the party and democracy. Inuwa Nguru was the PDP state chairman until days ago when he announced his defection to APC after a meeting with President Mohammadu Buhari in Abuja. But the concerned APC stakeholders claimed his defection was aimed at causing misunderstanding and disaffections among members of the part. “The defection of Inuwa Nguru is a welcome development for the APC in our dear state especially if the defection was done with a good intention. But unfortunately, it was not. This is because it was not done in consultation with either the Nguru Local Government Area leadership of our great party, or the Yobe State APC stakeholders. It was arranged by only two former PDP members who have just decamped to the APC for questionable reasons,” the group said. READ ALSO: APC, PDP clash: Police arrest Kwara South senatorial candidate, CNPP Kicks It accused the Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, of employing “clandestine manner” to cause disaffection in Yobe APC by arranging the “celebrated defection” after introducing the former PDP leader to the president. “Rather than truly coming to Yobe to renounce their allegiance to PDP having been in the opposition to our party for a long time, they chose to in clandestine manner, head to Mr President through Mallam Adamu Adamu,  Minister of Education. This, to us breached all known modes of political alignment or realignment. Worse, was that the realignment was done few days to elections,” the group said. It called on the APC supporters to be calm and asked the leadership to be weary of the new arrival whom it said defected same way to PDP in 2015 hours before elections.  