Adewale Sanyaolu The Consumer Protection Council (CPC), has warned against the potential risk associated with the use of Johnson& Johnson (J&J) Talc Baby/ body powder after a judgment against its manufacturers in the United States. A statement from CPC explained that the Council has become aware that a credible judicial process recently decided that Johnson & Johnson (J&J) Talc (Baby/Body) powder may be harmful and injurious to users, stating that, the product is popularly known as Johnson’s Baby Powder (product of Johnson & Johnson). CPC warned further that consumers are encouraged to proceed with an abundance of caution, and to contact NAFDAC, SON or the Council with any questions while considering alternatives such as face/skin powders containing corn starch instead of talc. ‘‘Specifically, a court in the United States decided that the company failed to warn consumers about the potential health risks associated with using its baby and body powder products. The Plaintiffs alleged that asbestos (a known carcinogen, allegedly present in the talc-an ingredient of the products) caused them to develop ovarian cancer. Although this case is subject to appeal, and J & J has expressed its intention to appeal accordingly, the Council considers it important to alert and educate consumers as they make choices with respect to baby and body powders. Indeed, regulatory documents filed in the United States reveal that there are more than 9,000 plaintiffs against the company in cases involving their talc body powder. The Council noted that scientific findings in support of the decision of the court above are otherwise inconclusive. ‘‘ Regardless,  a consumer advisory in this regard is appropriate. The Council recognises that the National Agency for Food & Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) and the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) are relevant and key regulators with respect to food and drug safety and standards. The Council is in communication with both regulators accordingly.