Linus Oota, Lafia PDP senator representing Nasarawa South Senator Solomon Adokwe says that the last minute postponement of the general election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has “crippled” and rendered the party “broke”. Senator Adokwe told journalists in Lafia that the Commission’s action was a calculated attempt to make sure that the opposition party has no funds to mobilise logistics to its members. He said that there was pressure on the Commission by the ruling APC party to conduct multiple-day elections in the country. Their plan, he said, was to use enough security agencies in an election intended to run over multiple days to pepetuate themselves in office, even though it is clear that Nigerians were going to reject them in a free and fair election. Senator Adokwe, who accused the electoral body of bias against the PDP said “most states in Nigeria, including Nasarawa State, were earmarked to frustrate the process so that they have staggered election. I believe it is God that is working; now you have the whole week to prepare and address all the challenges, no excuses any more,” he said Senator Adokwe accused the Commission of being partisan, saying that “the integrity and credibility of INEC to conduct free and fair elections is questionable. “The APC are quick at saying it was done in the past. Even if you say Jonathan did it, the Commission under Jonathan gave two weeks notice, but this INEC gave just few hours notice when we have already used our little resource to mobilise logistics for the process. He went on to add that, “They did that to frustrate PDP. It was a calculated attempt at making sure that PDP is broke since they can easily go back to Central Bank to get funds. It is an attempt to make sure we are crippled and broke, but they will be shocked at the resilience of PDP; we are going to bounce back right into their faces.” Despite the frustration, Adokwe said that his supporters were fully prepared for the election, noting that the postponement would not deter them from troopping out next Saturday to cast their votes for him. The candidate expressed disappointment over the action of the Commission, noting that since the advent of democracy in Nigeria, this was the first Commission to give a long period notice in preparation for an election. “They released their timetable eight months ago and commenced the process immediately. Their actions have raised a lot of room for one not to trust them. You cannot look at a Commission that is speaking from both sides of the mouth and believe that they will do the right thing, ” he said. Senator Adokwe is running for the fourth time to represent Nasarawa South, contesting against APC candidate and incumbent governor Umaru Tanko Al-Makura. 