Chinenye Anuforo Celebrating a decade since the launch of the first Galaxy S, Samsung introduces a new line of premium smartphones, Galaxy S10 series. With three unique devices, the Galaxy S10 line is engineered to meet the distinct needs of todays smartphone market, so consumers can do more of what they love. Each device delivers a next-generation experience in the categories consumers care about most: ground-breaking innovations in display, camera and performance. As testament to a decade of innovations, Galaxy S10 is designed for those who want a premium smartphone with powerful performance and sets the stage for the next generation of mobile experiences. For consumers looking for a supercharged device, Galaxy S10+ takes every spec  from display, to camera, to performance  to the next level. Galaxy S10e is built for those who want all the premium essentials in a compact package on a flat screen. Since its launch ten years ago, the Galaxy S series has stood for premium innovation  offering consumers an incredible experience, and the ability to find the device thats right for them, Mr. David Suh, Managing Director at Samsung Electronics West Africa. Galaxy S10 builds on that incredible legacy, and delivers breakthrough display, camera, and performance innovations. With three premium devices, each built for a unique consumer in mind, Samsung is leveraging a decade of industry leadership to usher in a new era of smartphone technology. Introducing the Dynamic AMOLED Display: Full Screen Experience with Ultrasonic Fingerprint Scanner Galaxy S10 is made with Samsungs best screen yet, the worlds first Dynamic AMOLED display. As the first HDR10+-certified smartphone, the display delivers vivid digital content, and with dynamic tone mapping, youll see a wider range of colour for a brilliant, realistic picture. Galaxy S10s Dynamic AMOLED display is also VDE-certified for vibrant bright colours and the industrys best contrast ratio on a mobile device for even deeper blacks and brighter whites. Verified by DisplayMate, youll also enjoy the worlds most accurate colours on a mobile device even in harsh sunlight. Whats more, the Dynamic AMOLED display also reduces blue light through its TÜV Rheinland-certified Eye Comfort display without compromising picture quality or adding a filter. The result of a ground-breaking engineering process, Galaxy S10s unique Infinity-O Display packs an array of sensors and camera technology into a hole-in display  so you can maximise your screen real estate without any distractions. Galaxy S10s Dynamic AMOLED display also includes the first-ever embedded Ultrasonic Fingerprint Scanner that reads the 3D contours of your physical thumbprint  not a 2D image of it  for improved anti-spoofing. With the worlds first FIDO Alliance Biometric Component certification, this next generation biometrics authentication offers vault-like security to keep your device safe. Building on Samsungs camera leadership of Dual Pixel and Dual Aperture firsts, Galaxy S10 introduces new camera technology and advanced intelligence that makes it easy to take epic shots and videos: Ultra-Wide Lens: A first for the S Series, Galaxy S10 offers an Ultra-Wide Lens with a 123-degree field of view, like the human eye, so what you see is whats in frame. Perfect for impressive landscape shots, big panoramas and even fitting the entire extended family into the photo, the Ultra-Wide Lens ensures that youll always be able to capture the full scene. Super Steady & High-Quality Video Recording: Galaxy S10 offers Super Steady recording with digital stabilisation technology. Whether youre dancing in the middle of an amazing concert or trying to record every detail of a bumpy bike ride, Super Steady allows you to capture the moment. Both front and rear cameras can shoot in up-to UHD quality, and in an industry first, the rear camera gives you the flexibility to record in HDR10+.