Okey Sampson, Aba Former governor of Abia State and All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate in Saturday’s National Assembly election, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to evolve means of strengthening the country’s voting system, to make it less cumbersome for voters. Kalu made the call when he spoke with newsmen after casting his vote at Onuibina Primary School, Igbere, in Bende Local Government Area. He said it is not in the interest of the nation’s democracy for voters to stay on the queue for several hours before casting their votes. “A situation whereby voters stay on the queue for hours to cast their votes would be discouraging to so many people and, that is why I am calling on INEC to find a way to solve this problem,” he said. Kalu expressed joy that the polls went without violence or rancour in his community. He said that was how elections were supposed to be, and added that people should learn how to play politics without bitterness. He said going by the love the people of Abia North have for him, he had no doubt he would win the election, stressing that he has paid his dues in Abia state and it remains for the people to reciprocate. Voters turned out en masse in Igbere, to exercise their franchise, which went on without violence in all the polling units. In Umuhu Ezechi, despite attempts by a member of the PDP in the area to rig the election, which was stoutly resisted by some youths and women, voting went on without any trouble. This was even as securitymen were drafted from a neighbouring community to help checkmate activities of the PDP irredentist who was hell bent on causing commotion in the area to achieve his aim of rigging the election. Elsewhere, in Umuahia, the state capital, a chieftain of APC, Prince Benjamin Apugo who voted around 1.00pm, bemoaned the late arrival of materials in many parts of the capital city. He, however, thanked the voters for being orderly during the polls, adding that but for the rigging applied by the PDP, the election went on well in Umuahia. In Aba, the commercial hub of the state, the election was delayed following late arrival of materials and officials of INEC to various polling units.