Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa Card reader failed to detectthe fingerprints of Bayelsa State Governor, Henry Seriake Dickson, during the poll on Saturday. This is even as Dickson expressed dismay over the alleged collusion of security agencies particularly the Nigerian Army with All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains and suspected thugs to unleash mayhem on members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) during the elections. Dickson, who stated this shortly after voting at Ererewari Polling Unit 5, Toru Orua in Sagbama Local Government Area, accused former governor of the state, Timipre Sylva, one Kodjo Sam and his cohorts of leading the attack.  He alleged that the Army aided and abetted suspected thugs, wondering why security agencies were partial in carrying out the presidential order to deal decisively with those who commit infractions during the elections. According to Dickson, security agencies provided cover for leaders of the APC to carry out their nefarious acts in parts of the state.  Dickson, who described the situation as sad, said the security agents should rise up to the occasion by protecting innocent voters. The governor also expressed displeasure about the malfunctioning of the card readers in spite of sufficient resources and time given to INEC to conduct the elections. His words: “It is a sad thing in this country that after all these years of introduction of the card reader, my finger prints could not be authenticated. I don’t know who has programmed it that way and for what purpose. “But I have heard, since yesterday, sad reports of terrible acts of violence, terrorism and brigandage perpetrated by Timipre Sylva and one Kodjo in Bassambiri where at least one person has been reported dead. And where PDP leaders and supporters have been attacked and people have been running helter-skelter for their lives. “The soldiers who are paid and whose duty it is to protect our people are participating in this unwholesome act by pretending not to see the terrible things happening. Properties are vandalised and people are shot at. “I believe the Nigerian Army authorities will investigate this and know who has given the orders under which they claim to be acting to perpetrate criminality and brigandage.”