The aspiration of former Abia State governor, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, received a major boost on Monday, following his endorsement by the elders of Nkporo community in Lagos. Nkporo is in Ohafia Local Government Area of Abia State. The deputy governor, Ude Oko Chukwu, is from the community. But the community believed that Kalu, who is the Abia North senatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), is far more beneficial to them than Chukwu. Describing Kalu as the highest benefactor of the community, the community leader, Chief Peter Eme, who addressed the elders of the community listed some of the benefits that Kalu had attracted to the community to include empowerment of its sons and building of infrastructure. According to him, “OUK is central to what we enjoy today as Nkporo political relevance. OUK gave Nkporo the first executive chairman of Ohafia LGA, Chief Ufere Ilum Eme. Under OUK, the following commissioners were appointed from Nkporo; Arua Arunsi, Otuu Irukwu, Arunsi Uka and Kalu Ndukwe.” He also reminded the elders that it was Kalu who appointed Ude Okude Egwu from Elughu Nkporo as the first Magistrate from Nkporo just as he appointed Ogba Ude Ndukwe from Amurie Nkporo as Abia State Independent Electoral Commission (ABSIEC) commissioner. Eme also recalled that in 2003 as the PDP leader in Abia State, Kalu authorized zoning of Ohafia North House of Assembly seat in favour of Nkporo and the emergence of Ude Oko Chukwu, the present deputy governor as the candidate. “This singular gesture initiated the process and paved the way for whatever Ude Oko Chukwu is today. “Kalu also constructed the first Asphalt Road from Alayi/ Item to Amurie Nkporo, created the present five-electoral-ward structure in Nkporo, created the present autonomous communities structure in Nkporo and resolved the age long chieftaincy crisis between Elughu and Amurie Nkporo communities,” Eme said. “OUK appointed an Nkporo son the Director General of his political structure Reality Organisation worldwide. Under OUK, Nkporo benefited from his free education programme. OUK initiated and extended free medical care to all parts of Abia State including Nkporo. “Today and even with our son as deputy governor, Nkporo has lost almost everything including peace, unity and political cohesion. OUK has loved Nkporo more than the present PDP political leadership in Nkporo,” Eme declared.