Chinwendu Obienyi To simplify the process of writing a will and trusts irrespective of age, class, net worth and religion for the average Nigerian, UTL Trustees has launched an online will-writing service called WillPower. UTL Trustees, formerly known as Union Trustees, is licensed by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and has, in its over 50-year history, focused on creating, protecting and managing assets. Speaking during the launch of the product, Managing Director, UTL Trustees, Olufunke Aiyepola, said that WillPower was conceived to create awareness about the need to write a will as well as make wills and trusts available to Nigerians at an affordable rate. Aiyepola assured Nigerians that the new product will ensure the security of the testator’s assets and beneficiaries and the voice when he or she departs. According to her, “it is affordable as it costs N50,000, which is inclusive of the brokerage and DHL fees and so it is quite affordable. “In terms of security, we have a KYC (Know Your Customer) process and that is why means of identification is needed and a utility bill. So we take verification very seriously to find who registered the will.” She said that with WillPower, Nigerians can create their wills from the comfort of their homes and so, determine how their assets will be transferred to loved ones. “The process of creating a will has now been made easy as the platform has a user-friendly interface. All an individual needs to do is to create a secure account on our website, draft a will, print and sign. “Once it’s dropped off at our designated couriers around the country, a legal team will review it and it will be lodged at probate in any of the 36 states chosen by the individual. The process is accessible, convenient and seamless and the questions are easy to answer. All wills generated on WillPower are legally valid,” she said. Aiyepola further noted that the product comes with three offerings, which include the Simple Will – applicable to business persons and retirees; the RSA Will – applicable to corporate and public service employees and the RSA Trust. The WillPower service is available 24/7 online at www.willpower.ng and by visiting the site, anyone can easily write a will, right where they are. 