Presiding Bishop of Maranatha Lord Cometh Ministries International, Samuel Olumakinde Alawode, has alleged attempts by desperate politicians to rig the general election. In a statement on his Facebook page, yesterday morning, with the title: ‘I will speak, now, I will voice out’, Alawode, whose church’s headquarters is in Ibadan, Oyo State, urged the electorate to be vigilant and assured the rigging plans will fail. “There is a massive plan to rig the elections across the regions and the states. Desperate politicians are set to hold on to power or grab power by all means, as the case may be. “What I’m saying is, ‘Thus says the Lord’, I am not referring to one specific person or any political party, lest the security operatives ask me to point to them. I speak as God’s servant, I speak as a passionate Nigerian. “But, hear the word of the Lord, these evil plans will fail. Yes, they will not stand. Political arithmetics will fail. Political logic will crumble. Political gods in human skin shall be disgraced and embarrassed even at their very own doorstep. Election rigging engineers shall become like artisans. “God spoke to us in Maranatha chapel about this, between December 26 and 31,  2018, during our annual prophetic summit. “In relation to Nigeria. The Lord will turn the wisdom of the wise to foolishness, and by mercy turn the foolish into wise, especially concerning the election. “Those who have become wise in electioneering strategies will suddenly find themselves confused. The experts in election manipulations shall become as unlearned. “The year shall be full of many surprises, both positives and negatives. “Get ready for many surprises, but don’t be surprised. From sitting office holders who feel they can’t be dislodged, to overconfident contenders assured of winning the election based on their perfected plans, there shall be surprises. “The God of Heaven shall make the wise fools and make the seemingly foolish ones wise. He will destroy the counsel of the wicked and enterprise of the ungodly. “I’m not referring to any particular person, nor political party, I speak as His messenger and oracle. I wish no one evil. “I love all men from all the tribes and ethnic groups in Nigeria not minding our religious persuasions and political philosophy and leanings,” Alawode said in the statement.