Molly Kilete, Abuja The Nigerian Army has vowed to deal ruthlessly with any local and foreign elements planning to frustrate the conduct of a peaceful general election in the country. Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant-General Tukur Buratai, who gave the warning in Abuja, said the army has received intelligence report about plans by some unpatriotic groups within the country, in conjunction with some foreign collaborators, to scuttle the peaceful conduct of the coming elections in some states of the federation. Buratai made this known while declaring open the Chief of Army Staff Operations Conference with General Officers  Commanding (GOCs), Field Commanders and Principal Staff Officers, held at the Army Headquarters Command Mess, in Abuja. The army chief, who said the meeting was to appraise the security situation in the country, especially with the upcoming elections, equally directed the GOCs, formations’ commanders as well as brigade commanders deployed in the South East part of the country to, immediately, embark on a clampdown on members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and their splinter groups. He said: “This is because the activities of the outlawed IPOB and their splinter groups in the South Eastern part of the country are gaining momentum as the group is threatening to disrupt the 2019 electoral process. “The political clashes in Taraba State and a few other states call for enhanced liaison between commanders, the Nigeria Police and other security agencies to de-escalate tension as quickly as possible.” The army chief, who said the army would not fold its hands to watch unscrupulous persons disrupt the peace in the country, said: “Let me, at this point, state that we have information of subversive motives by some unpatriotic groups, aided by foreign conspirators, to scuttle the peaceful conduct of the 2019 general election in some parts of the country. “We, hereby, warn such detractors to immediately mend their ways. The army is working closely with the  police and other security agencies to ensure an enabling environment for the good citizens of our dear country to exercise their civic rights. “In this regard, GOCs and field commanders at all levels are to deal decisively with any form of security breach.” Speaking on the role expected of the army during the elections, Buratai said: “Our role in support of the nations’ democracy cannot be over-emphasised. Hence, this conference will provide us the opportunity to review the conduct of Ex Egwu Eke III and to appraise the preparations, so far, being made by various formations towards the smooth execution of Op Safe Conduct before, during and after the  elections. “I’m glad to note that this conference will also witness a presentation by the Nigerian Army Cyber Warfare Command, on our latest effort at adapting web-based technologies for monitoring the operating environment, especially during the elections. Over the past one year, I’ve given very clear directives on the posture the army should adopt during the elections. “The need for the army to remain apolitical and professionally responsive in the discharge of its constitutional roles has been stressed. We must remain neutral, non-partisan and transparent in all our actions. “I need to reiterate  there will be zero-tolerance for any action and in-action by commanders at all levels that is tilted towards giving undue advantage to any candidate, political party, ethnic or religious leanings to the detriment of the unity and integrity of Nigeria.”  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 