Molly Kilete, Abuja The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, has said that 128 persons were arrested for various electoral offences across the country during Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections. The IGP, who made this known in Abuja, said the suspects were arrested for offenses ranging from homicide-related crimes, vote-buying, ballot box snatching, impersonation, and malicious damage, among others. He also said that 38 assorted weapons and a cache of explosives were recovered from the suspects who are currently in custody. Adamu, in a statement signed by the Force Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba, said the Special Election Investigation Team (SEIT) has been directed to commence investigation of all security-related infractions during the election and ensure that all persons found culpable are brought to book in accordance with the law. Mba, in the statement, said the IGP commended Nigerians for turning out in large numbers and conducting themselves orderly during the elections. Adamu equally commended personnel of the Nigeria Police Force and other security agencies for their sacrifice and contributions towards the successful conduct of the elections. The statement read: “The Inspector-General of Police, M.A. Adamu, has commended Nigerians for the massive turn-out, and the largely orderly conduct of most Nigerians in the Saturday, 23rd February 2019, Presidential/National Assembly elections. “The IGP also commended personnel of the Nigeria Police Force and other security agencies for the sacrifices made towards the successful conduct of the elections. “Notwithstanding a few unfortunate incidents, including loss of lives recorded during the election, the IGP hails the exercise as a generally successful one. “Meanwhile, a total of 128 persons were arrested across the country for various electoral offences, ranging from homicide-related crimes, vote buying, ballot box snatching, impersonation, and malicious damage, among others; while 38 assorted weapons and a cache of explosives were also recovered. “Consequently, the IGP has directed the Special Election Investigation Team (SEIT) to immediately commence discreet investigation of all security related infractions during the election and ensure that all persons found culpable are brought to book in accordance with the law. “The IGP has, however, expressed deep concerns over continuous use of hateful and inflammatory comments capable of inciting Nigerians against one another, especially by politicians and their followers. He therefore warns that while the Force is not in the business of censoring Nigerians or abridging their constitutional rights of freedom of speech, it will not hesitate to rein in the full wrath of the law on any person(s) found wanting in this regard. 