Noah Ebije, Kaduna. The presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP),  Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has assured that  his government will not be run by cabal. He accused the present government of the All Progressives Congress (APC) of inflicting the country with pains and poverty because President Muhammadi Buhari is allegedly not fully in  control of government. Atiku, who said this while interacting with stakeholders from the 23 local government areas of Kaduna State, at the trade fair complex, reiterated that PDP will not tolerate any form of ballot snatching. While assuring that his party will not indulge in any act against the electoral law, he, however, insisted that the order to kill any ballot box snatcher was undemocratic . He said if elected as president in Saturday’s election, he will sell off the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to provide more development,because very few are benefiting from the operations of the national assets, at the expense of the entire Nigerians. To this end, he challenged president Buhari, who is equally the Minister of Petroleum, to relinquish the running of the NNPC to ordinary people, to show his level of sincerity. ‘’If I get elected as president, 40 percent of my cabinet will be youth and education will be provided for all, regardless of any affiliation, and my government will not be run by cabals. “The women will be given their dues and will not be relegated  to the kitchen, while the physically challenged will be carried along, accordingly”. On his part, the National Chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, told the  stakeholders to resist every form of provocation to warrant postponement of election in the state. “The governor is running from one place to another seeking federal support to shift election, all such efforts will fail. “ I urge us all to be resolute to vote Atiku Abubakar in the coming election and all other candidates of the PDP in all the elections. “Resist all forms of provocation, because what the government of the day wants is to cause violence, so as to shift election particularly in the strong holds of the PDP, we must not fall for their plans”.  he stated. 