All Progressives Congress National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has dismissed reports he is set to dump the party. Tinubu said he remains grounded in the governing party. A video where Asiwaju Tinubu, at the APC Presidential Campaign rally in Abeokuta, Ogun State, was seen throwing the party’s flag to National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole to give to the party’s governorship candidate in the state, Prince Dapo Abiodun, was being framed by opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to mean he was throwing away the party’s flag. In a statement on Tuesday night by his Special Adviser, Media, Tunde Rahman, the APC leader denied throwing away the party’s flag as being insinuated by the PDP. He said: “With but a few precious days until the election and with its chance of victory running out even faster than the time, the PDP now grasps at the most nonsensical and desperate tactics to salvage its falling enterprise. “However, a drowning man cannot toss himself a lifeline. “Nor can the PDP succeed in turning the innocuous attempted exchange of a flag between the National Leader and National Chairman into a rift in the APC’s successful campaign. “An incident did actually occur at the Ogun state APC rally but it is not the one PDP has concocted. “The true incident that should be reported and condemned is that people who furtively oppose the party and the president tried to infiltrate and disrupt this rally. The attack by these operatives was disrespectful of the office of the president and could have potentially harmed the person of the president. “Such antics have no place in our political discourse. The author of these misdeeds should desist before real harm is done. Now to the crux of the opposition’s latest antics. If the issue of the flag has become the hotspot of the PDP campaign, then, they are in serious trouble. “During that portion of the Ogun rally, the national chairman and others were looking for a party flag. Asiwaju Tinubu spotted one within his reach. “He picked it up and attempted to toss it to Oshiomhole so that the chairman could present it to the party’s gubernatorial candidate Prince Dapo Abiodun. If you want to fault Asiwaju for anything in this matter, your critique can only be limited to the accuracy of his toss. Any attempt to enlarge the episode beyond this is fiction and mischief writ large. “As the national leader, Asiwaju Tinubu is thoroughly faithful and committed to the APC. It is unthinkable that he would leave the party. “Moreover, there is no reason for him to do so. He has been hard at work for the victory of the APC and all of its candidates in the upcoming election. “Asiwaju understands the bigger picture. He knows what is at stake in this election. “Either the nation moves forward along the progressive path of the APC or it will be forced to retreat into the ills of the past created by the PDP. “With the nation’s future hanging in the balance, Asiwaju will not allow himself to be deterred by petty mischief.” “Those spinning this matter should make better use of their imaginations. Asiwaju is not going anywhere. “He remains in the APC. And, after the election, he will be there celebrating APC’s and this nation’s victory; over those who would prevent us our rightful future”.