Mohammmed Imam is the PDP candidate. He speaks on his plans for Borno State is elected governor next month. What is your blueprint for Borno if elected? The task before us is enormous. Our desire to win election is a task that must be accomplished and this was the charge I gave to the campaign committee at the inauguration. Why we need change in Borno is because of poverty of leadership and ideas in the leadership we have in the current administration in the state. There is lack of transparency, high rate of corruption, prevalent insecurity in our state. Before the advent of this administration, there were 310 wards. There was no migration from these wards not to talk about complete evacuation of people but in the last seven years, many communities do no longer exist due to the insecurity. It is very sad. It is our mission to ensure IDPs go back to their Local Government Areas. We have no reason to keep the IDPs in Maiduguri or some local government headquarters. Why are they keeping IDPs up till now? We believe insecurity is on the rise because elections are approaching. A lot of things need to be looked into. There is no reason for pushing people into Maiduguri if not for the sake of elections. Our people need to be more vigilant. Which specific area will you focus on should you win the poll? First is security. People must return to their villages and towns. Life and properties of the people must be protected. This is the background and responsibility of every government; to protect the life and properties of the citizenry. Also, education is vital for us. We are going to put our priority into education of our people. We must make sure our children go to school. We will introduce policy of feeding. Our children in primary and secondary schools will be given free meal and incentives to encourage them to go to school and enroll. Aside, we will have a legislation that every child that has reached the age of going to school must enroll. Our health system needed to be improved on. What is on ground now leaves much to be desired especially about the approach of the present administration to health sector. Where is the huge money being budgeted to the sector in the last seven years?