The Police Service Commission (PSC) has approved the removal the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Edgal Imohimi, following the recommendation of the acting Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu. In his stead, Mu’azu Zubairu will now take over as the new police commissioner in the state. Kayode Egbetokun, who was also recently appointed as a commissioner in Lagos, has been redeployed to Kwara State. This was disclosed in a statement issued by the PSC’s Head of the Press and Public Relations of the Police Service Commission, Ikechukwu Ani, in a statement, yesterday. The new commissioners and their states are: Buba Sanusi, Katsina; Mohammed Wakili, Kano; Rabiu Ladodo, Jigawa; Ahmed Iliyasu, Ogun; Mu’azu Zubairu, Lagos; Ibrahim Sabo, Niger; Alkassam Sanusi, Taraba; Garba M. Mukaddas, Adamawa; Omololu Bishi, Benue; Bola Longe, Nasarawa; Isaac Akinmoyede, Plateau; Odumosu Hakeem, Edo; Olushola David, Bayelsa; Adeleke Yinka, Delta; Austin Iwero Agbonlahor, Cross River; Bashir Makama, Akwa Ibom; Awosola Awotunde, Ebonyi; Belel Usman, Rivers; Bello Makwashi, Gombe and Abdulrahman Ahmed, Kaduna. Others are: Bala Ciroma, FCT; Egbetokun Kayode, Kwara; Hakeem Busari, Kogi; Asuquo Amba, Ekiti; Galadanchi Dasuki, Imo; Suleiman Balarabe, Enugu; Dandaura Mustapha, Anambra; Etim Ene Okon, Abia; Ibrahim Kaoje, Sokoto; Celestine Okoye, Zamfara; Garba Danjuma, Kebbi; Abiodun Ige, Osun; Undie Adie, Ondo; Olukolu Shina, Oyo; Ali Janga, Bauchi; Damian Chukwu, Borno and Sumonu Abdulmalik, Yobe. The commissioners have been directed to proceed immediately to their new Commands; ahead of the general election. PSC Chairman, Alhaji Musiliu Smith, charged them to quickly settle at their new posts and ensure that the forth-coming general election in their various commands are peaceful, free, fair and transparent. The IGP also announced the appointment of 18 new Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIGs), to man the various zones across the country. In a statement by the Force/Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba, said the appointment and redeployment of the affected officers was with immediate effect. Under the new arrangement, AIG Wilson Inalegwu mans Zone 9, Umuahia, while AIG Abdul Dahiru Danwawo is in Maritime, AIG Adeyemi O. Ogunjemilusi is Directing Staff,NIPPS, and AIG Maurice Yusuf  heads Research and Planning.