Passers-by and jubilant residents of Iwo Road, Ibadan, on Tuesday, hailed the humanitarian gesture of Oyo State Governor, Abiola Ajimobi, when he halted his convoy to rescue and evacuate accident victims to the University College Hospital in the state. The governor, who personally escorted the male and female victims to the Accident and Emergency Ward of the hospital at about 5:00pm, had just returned from Ado-Ekiti, where he had attended President Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election campaign rally. Sources at the scene of the accident claimed that a hit-and-run driver knocked the motorcycle conveying the victims from the rear at about 4:00pm, and flung the rider and his female passenger to the ground. They sustained suspected head injury and fractures. One of the sources, Tajudeen Adebare, who sells tyres along the road, said onlookers had feared that they might get into trouble if they rescue the victims and take them to the hospital without a police report; should any of the victims die. He said: “Everybody was afraid of going near them. A reckless driver, who ought to obey the ‘drive slowly’ signs placed along the road, because of the expansion works, ignored the signs and drove recklessly into the area. He hit the motorcycle rider from behind and ran away. The rider and the woman he was conveying sustained serious injuries, which scared people from moving near them. Nobody wants to get into trouble with the police. With their condition, we couldn’t take them to the police station to first obtain a report before taking them to the hospital. “We were surprised when the governor got to the scene after about 30 minutes and stopped. He watched as the victims were taken into one of the Hilux vans in his convoy. Many people that we consider as ‘big men’ have passed through this place since the accident occurred. Personally, I’m impressed by the governor’s humanitarian gesture. That was why people who were watching started to hail him. He is an example of a good leader. I pray that other leaders will be as caring as this.” Regardless, on arrival at the UCH Emergency Unit, the governor engaged the medical personnel on duty, and ensured the victims were stabilised before he left the ward. But, before leaving, Ajimobi paid the bill of four other victims he met in the place and detailed one of his aides to follow up with the two victims he personally took to the hospital.  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 