Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, has said all policemen deployed to different parts of the country to monitor the 2019 general election would wear special tags on election day, to guard against impersonation. The IGP disclosed this during a meeting with policemen at the headquarters of the Oyo State Police Command, Eleyele, Ibadan, yesterday. The meeting, which was followed by a stakeholders’ meeting at the same venue, was attended by the Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG), Zone 11, Osogbo, comprising Oyo, Osun and Ondo states, Mr. Adeleye Oyebade; and Commissioner of Police in Oyo State, Mr. Sina Olukolu. The stakeholders’ meeting was also attended by the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in the state, Mr. Mutiu Agboke, as well as representatives of political parties. Adamu, who was represented by the Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG), in charge of Training and Development, as well as South West supervising DIG for the general election, Mr. Jubrin Yakubu, said it has become imperative to introduce the tags to ensure that there is no breach of security on Election Day. “To guard against intruders, we will introduce the use of tags, so that we can properly identify our officers, and to ensure that fake policemen don’t operate on Election Day,” he said. Adamu assured policemen that their welfare would be paramount, adding that many of the officers deployed for the polls were already receiving bank alerts for their upkeep during the elections. He urged policemen to be very alert on election day, be abreast of developments in their areas of operation, sbould not compromise, shun corrupt practices, and must not identify with any political party on election day. The IGP also enjoined voters to stay 300 metres away from the polling unit after casting their votes, adding that first aid boxes and ambulances would be provided to take care of emergencies. At the stakeholders’ meeting, Oyebade assured Nigerians that “the police will not allow the fundamental human rights of any citizen to be trampled upon. The police will not tolerate or allow any misguided individual or group of individuals to derail the elections. He said, “We shall not permit any act that will cause disturbance of public peace, violence or intimidation of the electorate. The police shall be courteous, decisive and firm in their engagements during the elections. However, for those who want to test our resolve in ensuring a peaceful atmosphere during and after the elections, we shall not hesitate to bring the full weight of police resources to deal firmly and decisively with any unruly behaviour or disturbance.” Olukolu noted that a total of 10,000 policemen have been deployed to the 33 local government areas of the state to ensure security on election day, adding that there is synergy among security agencies in the state, and that “the police in Oyo State are prepared and ready to ensure safety of the people and smooth conduct of the polls.”