Taiwo Oluwadare, Ibadan A House of Representatives candidate in Ibarapa East/Ido Federal Constituency, Prof. Adeniyi Olowofela, has described last Sunday’s attack by the oppositions as an indication of his popularity and acceptability by the constituents. Olowofela, who is the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, for the Federal constituency condemned in totality the unwarranted attacks on his properties, belonging to his party, supporters and APC faithful, accusing the oppositions of orchestrating the attack where an APC member was killed. He added that the attack was uncalled for. According to him, the uproarious event which claimed the life of an APC chieftain and strong member of his Campaign Organisation, Alhaji Salau Salimon Alade, reported to have been shot dead, occurred shortly after the state  governor,  Abiola Ajimobi and the APC’s gubernatorial candidate, Chief Adebayo Adelabu left the Omi-Adio rally, stressing that other party faithfuls whom were directly attacked, also sustained various injuries. Among the properties attacked by the thugs was his Omi-Adio residence, in Ido Local Government Area of Oyo state where no fewer than six vehicles including two branded hummer buses (belonging to the legislative arm, Omi-Apata LCDA and Ido Lg APC), branded villager mercury sport, Siena, old range rover, branded  pilot jeep  and campaign office were vandalised. READ ALSO: Plateau: Tapgun dumps PDP for APC In a statement issued on Monday by his media aide, Comrade Idowu Ayodele said the  opposition cannot change the resolve by Ibarapa East /Ido  constituents to vote for Olowofela  and all the APC candidates in the forthcoming polls billed for February 16. According to the statement, the ex -Commissioner for Education said, “though, I was surprised with the  degree of damages done by these criminals, but it has also confirmed our resounding victories as a party and further proven  that I remain the people’s choice. “The oppositions should endeavour to endear themselves to the good people of Ibarapa East/Ido Federal constituency, through humane and civilized manner, rather than resort to desperate tactics that threaten the lives and property of the citizens,” the statement added. While commending the Omi-Adio Divisional Police Headquarters for its quick response, Olowofela, however, demanded that the perpetrators of this heinous crime and their sponsors should be brought to book no matter how highly placed in order to stem the ugly trend. He, however, called on party faithfuls, supporters  good and peace loving people of Ibarapa East/Ido federal constituency to remain calm and maintain order.