Uche Usim, Abuja The Gombe State government has joined some of its northern counterparts to support the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) on its on-going oil expedition in the Gongola Basin. According to a press release by the spokesman of the NNPC, Mr. Ndu Ughamadu, the Governor of Gombe State, Alhaji Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, made the commitment when he led a delegation of the State Executive Council on a courtesy visit to the Group Managing Director of the NNPC, Dr. Maikanti Baru, in Abuja. The governor noted that NNPC under the leadership Dr. Maikanti Baru had made tremendous success, especially in the area of frontier exploration. He said that contrary to what obtained in some parts of the country where people were hostile to such exploratory activities, all communities in his state were ready to offer assistance to ensure the success of the project. “In Gombe State at the moment, the people are determined and willing to give whatever support the NNPC requires in order to attain its objectives”, he said. In his response, the Group Managing Director of the NNPC, Dr. Maikanti Baru, said that the corporation’s initiative to prospect for oil in the Gongola Basin and other parts was based on the commitment to harness the nation’s abundant natural resources for the growth of the country. The GMD expressed satisfaction with the level of hospitality offered the corporation’s field operation team in the area, adding that such a gesture was required for meaningful development in the oil and gas sector. He assured that NNPC would continue to live up to its mandate as it was ready to deploy its expertise in searching for oil in every part of the country. Baru also disclosed that the prognosis of Kolmani River-II Well was good based on the preliminary evaluation reports, emphasizing that the success in that direction would boost the Federation’s coffers and open up huge business opportunities to Nigerians. In over three decades of elusive search for hy­drocarbons in the Lake Chad Basin where the Federal government spent about $340 million and additional N27 billion, in seismic expedition, President Buhari in 2016 asked the NNPC to resume the search. But petroleum engineers, investment ex­perts and geologists have warned the Buhari administration could yet burn its fingers in the long run as the geography of the zone may not guarantee a commercial find.