The Lagos State Government, said on Monday that 10 victims of the July 4 Ijegun pipeline explosion have died due to severe and high degree burns suffered from the inferno. The Permanent Secretary, state Ministry of Health, Dr Titilayo Goncalves, made this known on Monday in Lagos. Goncalves said that three of the victims died at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja while seven died at Gbagada General Hospital. According to her, out of the 22 victims rescued by the Lagos State Ambulance Service (LASAMBUS), nine were taken to LASUTH, 12 to Trauma and Burns Unit of Gbagada General Hospital and one to Alimosho General Hospital. “Unfortunately, due to the high degree of burns suffered by these victims which is almost at 100 percent, we lost 10 of them. “But we are doing everything possible to ensure that no other life is lost and we will continue to do all in our might to provide intensive care for the remaining and from reports received they are responding to treatment. “Treatment of victims with high percentage of burns requires intensive care and management which should follow some treatment protocol. “This is why I am appealing to families of the victims to be calm and cooperate with our health workers as they care for their loved ones, “ she said. The permanent secretary said in a statement that the state government had so far expended over N10 million on the care of the victims. She assured that the survivors were receiving adequate and quality care at the designated government facilities free of charge. “Victims of the inferno are being provided with adequate and quality care in our facilities free of charge in line with Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s directive. “Also, they are being closely monitored and cared for by our specialists to ensure their full recovery and rehabilitation”, Goncalves said. Also, the Chief Medical Director, LASUTH, Dr Adetokunbo Fabamwo, said that the hospital and its annex, the Trauma and Burns Unit, Gbagada General Hospital, were providing the necessary care and support needed to aid the victims’ quick recovery. “LASUTH alone has expended about six million naira so far to cover laboratory investigations, X-rays, consumables and medications. “In fact, one of the patients was treated with silver patches costing N350,000,” he said. He added that daily on-the-spot assessments were being conducted by specialists in burns and trauma to ensure that the victims were rehabilitated in line with treatment protocol for burns. “I want to assure families of the victims that their loved ones will receive the best care possible and we will ensure availability of medical and other supplies throughout the period of their management,” Fabamwo said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the July 4 pipeline explosion at Ijegun, Lagos State, had claimed two lives on the spot, destroyed several houses and property, and left 13 casualties.(NAN)