Uche Usim, Abuja Management of the Nigerian National Petroleum Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has warned violators of pipeline Right Of Way (ROW) who have repeatedly compromised its facilities by illegally building on them. To address the challenge, the national oil company, via its downstream subsidiary, the Nigerian Pipeline and Storage Company (NPSC), has embarked on an extensive consultation and enlightenment exercise targeted at violators in affected communities, that the safety and wellbeing of the people remain paramount. NNPC after this step, the Army Engineering Corps would commence immediate demolition of all identified illegal structures. The main focal area is the System 2E oil pipeline network located along Port Harcourt-Aba-Enugu-Makurdi corridor It described the development as flagrant and dangerous violation of its pipeline right-of-way by some individuals. According to the Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, Ndu Ughamadu, the infringement on the statutorily guaranteed 25-metre infrastructure was not only detrimental to the free flow of petroleum products but was far more harmful to dwellers of illegal structures and shanties due to the combustible nature of hydrocarbons. The Corporation noted the inseparable link between the cases of oil pipeline right-of-way-encroachment and incessant pipeline vandalism cum oil theft with has continually vandalized the economy. According to the NNPC, the creation of the minimum 25-metre buffer for the pipeline is designed to allow for maintenance, repairs and replacements of pipelines as need may arise while ensuring the security and safety of the facility. The buffer also ensures that those living contiguous to the lines are shielded in cases of leakage, rupture or explosion. The Corporation noted that as the first step towards eventual removal of such structures by the team of Army Engineering Corps, The NNPC said that based on penetrating reconnaissance executed by the Army engineers stretching from Ogale-Eleme community in PH-Aba axis to Otade community in Enugu-Makurdi leg, structures in violation of the pipeline safety corridor have been identified and clearly marked with notice of imminent removal served on affected occupants. The Corporation noted that the essence of the red flag was to bring urgency to the situation along the PHC-Aba-Enugu-Markurdi line whose level of violation is about 75 percent stating that the position is intolerable with clear cases of individuals channeling products into private homes. “Such incidents are not only crystal clear cases of economic sabotage but poses unimaginable danger to the entire neighborhood,’’ the NNPC stated. Before now, the national oil company in concert with the Army Engineering Corps executed successful clearance of the system 2B pipeline ROW from the Atlas Cove in Lagos to Ibadan.