Agaju Madugba, Katsina The Katsina State government has commended the Nigerian media over what it described as the maturity with which they handled the wave of armed banditry in parts of the area. Speaking at a media capacity building workshop,  Secretary to the State Government, Dr. Mustapha Muhammad Inuwa, said the precarious security situation in the state had tended to attract so much publicity in local and national media. “The state has had its negative share of criminal activities comprising armed banditry, cattle rustling and kidnapping for ransom, especially in the eight local government areas bordering the Rugu forest, which include Jibia, Batsari, Safana, Dan-Musa, Kankara, Faskari, Dandume and Sabuwa. “We appreciate the maturity with which journalists in the state handled these issues and appeal to them to continue to discharge their civic responsibility within the boundaries of reason and moderation as the media remain critical stakeholders in national development.” The Nonviolent Peace Institute (NPI)  organised the workshop in collaboration with Absolute Press. In his welcome remarks, Chief Executive Officer of Absolute Press, Emeka Nwankpa, said the workshop was designed to, among other objectives, build media capacity and promote the deployment of patriotism and professional ethics in reporting the current security challenges in Katsina State. “This initiative is part of efforts to encourage journalists to strike a balance between reportage of conflict situations in the country and security matters, without compromising national security.” In a communique at the end of the programme, participants urged journalists to refrain from presenting  reports of acts of violence, banditry and terrorist activities in a manner that may tend to glorify such acts in the eyes of the general public. The communiqué also advised government to prioritise the provision of social welfare services including functional education, health, employment, and potable water for citizens.