Aidoghie Paulinus, Abuja Nigeria’s Consul General in Johannesburg, Mr Godwin Adama, has petitioned the South African authorities following a loud confrontation between former Big Brother Africa (BBA) star and model, Mr Tayo Faniran, and South African policemen who restrained and arrested the Nigerian during a routine stop-and-search. The Chairperson/Chief Executive Officer, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Abike Dabiri-Erewa, disclosed the development in a statement made available to Sunday Sun in Abuja. Dabiri-Erewa said the Nigerian Mission was pressing for a case against the policemen who were seen on a cellphone video filmed by Faniran, showing him loudly confronting the policemen and his subsequent takedown and arrest. .@Tayofaniran films his experience with @SAPoliceService pic.twitter.com/L8YcAXwqZK — Kayode Ogundamisi (@ogundamisi) July 25, 2019  Dabiri-Erewa said that the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID), the agency in South Africa that handles cases involving its Police Officers, had commenced work on the Faniran incident. “Our Consul General has also met with Tayo Faniran who was the latest victim of South Africa Policemen’s attack on Nigerians,” Dabiri-Erewa said. “While eight South African policemen are on trial for their involvement in maltreatment of Nigerians in the country, we will continue to follow up on this case and others involving attacks against Nigerians in South Africa.” She also posted a series of tweets updating Nigerians on developments. Update on @Tayofaniran s matter in SA.Our mission has petitioned and began pressing a case against the brutality of the police .  IPID , the agency investigating the police has commenced  work on the matter.Our Consul General has also met with Tayo — Abike Dabiri-Erewa (@abikedabiri) July 27, 2019  Update on @Tayofaniran’s matter in South Africa. Our mission in Johannesburg has petitioned and began pressing a case against the brutality of the SA police.  IPID, the agency investigating the police has commenced work on the matter.Our Consul General has also met with Tayo. — Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (@nidcom_gov) July 27, 2019  I agree with you absolutely . https://t.co/yFPCO7N0RB — Abike Dabiri-Erewa (@abikedabiri) July 27, 2019  The Nigerian Mission looking into this. However, any concrete step now has to be at the Ministerial level. The early warning signal agreement signed between both countries must be reviewed https://t.co/ONd75mVKOG — Abike Dabiri-Erewa (@abikedabiri) July 25, 2019  Just brought to my attention. I have forwarded to our Mission in SA .As I replied earlier, 8 policemen currently on trial in SA for maltreatment of Nigs . This should be so treated https://t.co/nKKf4i9keK — Abike Dabiri-Erewa (@abikedabiri) July 25, 2019  Still on the incident involving ex Bbn star, Tayo. He is out Police net. Our mission in Joburg took it up with the authorities . They claimed he was rude and shouted at them immediately he was stopped. No matter, the Police behavior was wrong. We are trying to reach Tayo — Abike Dabiri-Erewa (@abikedabiri) July 26, 2019  Consul General Adama was able to secure the release of Faniran from police custody, after which the Gauteng, South Africa based former reality TV star and model posted a video on Instagram about his experience.   Africa is still enslaved A post shared by  Tayo Faniran (@tayofaniran) on Jul 25, 2019 at 11:22pm PDT He thanked Dabiri-Erewa and the Nigerian Mission for their intervention in the matter. Thanks a lot for your support ma’am,God bless you,however ma I wasn’t rude to them,I have many witnesses and they are willing to testify  I appreciate your reaction ma  https://t.co/tOePtCtoSm — TAYO™‎ (@Tayofaniran) July 26, 2019  Big thanks to the Nigerian consulate,The consular general,his excellency sir Godwin.A.Adams for his speedy reaction,motivation and for giving me hope as a young Nigerian African that we have true leaders who care for… https://t.co/sQielNJB5F — TAYO™‎ (@Tayofaniran) July 26, 2019    Big thanks to the Nigerian consulate,The consular general,his excellency sir Godwin.A.Adams for his speedy reaction,motivation and for giving me hope as a young Nigerian African that we have true leaders who care for us so much,I truly appreciate the love and support you have shown sir,God bless you sir A post shared by  Tayo Faniran (@tayofaniran) on Jul 26, 2019 at 9:23am PDT