Raphael Ede, Enugu Enugu State residents are set to join in the sit-at-home declared by pro-Biafra groups to mourn those who lost their lives during the Nigeria/Biafra Civil War and their members extra-judicially killed by security agents. Police meanwhile have warned that it would not tolerate any breach of peace. Indigenous People of Biafra, (IPOB), Movement for the Actualisation of Sovereign State of Biafra, (MASSOB) and Aligbo Development Foundation among others have called on Igbo people both at home and abroad to use May 30 to remember Igbo people who were killed unjustly by security agents. However, the state police commissioner, Balarabe Suleiman, who spoke with our correspondent in Enugu on Wednesday, said that IPOB and other pro-Biafra groups have no right to declare a sit-at-home on May 30. The command urged members of the public to disregard the order, reminding IPOB that it has no power to declare a public holiday. Balarabe said it is only the Federal government that has the powers to declare a public holiday. Balarabe asked law-abiding citizens to go about their lawful businesses in the South East and Enugu in particular, as their protection was guaranteed. “The command is fully ready. We just finished a show of force. The police and other sister security agencies are ready to tackle all trouble makers, especially with sit-at-home by IPOB. We are ready to ensure that citizens go about their businesses without molestation. “We are asking people to come out and pursue their businesses on the day of the sit-at-home (May 30),” he said. Meanwhile, our correspondent observed that all the major roads leading to the state capital; Enugu – Port-Harcourt, Enugu – Abakaliki, Enugu – Onitsha Expressway, and Enugu – Makurdi roads have been completely taken over by a combined security personnel made of police, army, Navy, Air Force, and NSCDC. All vehicles coming in and out of the state are being searched in bid to track down the suspected members of the separatist groups.