A chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), John Osamede Adun, also known as Bob Izua, has lauded Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki’s performance since assuming office. He said the governor’s focus on infrastructure and development-oriented projects was laudable and admirable. Adun, who is also the managing director of Bob-Izua Motors, who visited the governor at the Government House, in Benin, disclosed his plans to return to the All Progressives Congress (APC), stressing that Governor Obaseki deserves all the support he needs to continue the good work of developing the state. He endorsed Obaseki for a second term in office in view of his stellar achievements in the last two and the half years, noting that the reforms in different sectors and the people’s acknowledgement of the governor’s effort were a sign of good things to come. Fielding questions from reporters, Adun said: “You can fly away and fly back. It is my house, and there is no problem in returning to your house. APC is my house. I went to PDP before, but I have come back to my house. “I decided to come here today to appreciate him for the work he is doing in the state. I was not forced by anybody to come here. I, Chief Osamede Adun, endorse him for second term.” Noting that the governor has given a good account of himself so far, he urged all right-thinking, developed-focused residents in the state to throw their weight behind the governor for the continuation of his praiseworthy developmental strides. The endorsement follows a flurry of support for the governor by national figures and chieftains of the APC in state, including former head of state, General Abdulsalami Abubakar; Edo South APC leader, Charles Idahosa; the executive members of the Edo State chapter of the APC; executive members of the Oredo chapter of the APC and many more groups drawn from different parts of the state. Adun’s stance also swells the rank of leaders of opposition parties who are lining behind the governor in the forthcoming governorship election slated for next year. Notable among them are Esama of Benin, Gabriel Igbinedion and former minister for External Affairs, Tom Ikimi.