Chinenye Anuforo As part of its efforts for excellence in the building industry, Lafarge Africa Plc., a subsidiary of LafargeHolcim, the global leader in building materials and solutions, recently launched a ready to use tile adhesive, Supafix, into the Nigerian market. Lafarge’s Supafix is a cementitious tile adhesive made of cement, aggregates, organic and inorganic additives, certified by the Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON). This product is designed for placing of ceramic tiles, flooring and walling applications, as indoor coating solutions. The introduction of Supafix into the Nigerian market is in line with Lafarge’s Strategy 2022, Building for Growth, which aims to drive profitable growth and simplify the business to deliver resilient returns and attractive value to stakeholders. Speaking at the launch in Lagos, Head of Mortar, Lafarge Africa, Jumoke Adegunle, acknowledged that the new product’s introduction into the Nigerian market is in response to customer needs and global construction trends in the craft of tiling. She further stated: “We launched Supafix because we have a unique understanding of our customers’ needs. With our access to best in class, innovative solutions from across the LafargeHolcim group worldwide, we were able to identify and introduce the right tiling adhesive that will satisfy the needs of our local customers.” “For 60 years, Lafarge Africa has been at the forefront of technological advancement in the Nigerian construction sector. Our global presence and Research Centre in Lyon, France allows us to share best practices and create innovative solutions that deliver more to our customers. The new Supafix tile adhesive is one of such solutions” she concluded. Beyond its value of reinforcing buildings, quality tiling enhances the aesthetics in any construction project at no additional cost.  Supafix is the ultimate tiler’s choice because it is fast and easy to use. Simply add water to the ready to use mixture and the tiler seamlessly gets to work. The product also has a very neat, strong finish when compared to existing solutions in the market. Commending the efforts of Lafarge Africa, one of the participants at the Supafix sensitization market storm and application demonstration, Mr Dosu Togbe, said it is interesting to know that the organization has developed a product like Supafix to ease our work as tilers. “We thank the company for this initiative. While I encourage my colleagues to be more diligent at their work, I believe using the new product from Lafarge will provide great relief for us from the huge cost that we normally incur when there is an error. This demonstration has added to our knowledge on the job as we can now carry out our work with ease and achieve better results”, Togbe said.