The country’s athletes have set their sights on competing with their East African counterparts, as the seventh Okpekpe 10km Road Race takes centre stage in Okpekpe, Etsako East Local Government of Edo State. Athletes from East Africa, Kenya and Ethiopia to be precise had won the IAAF Silver Label Race in the last six editions, but some of the long distance runners in Nigeria had set their targets on achieving something from this year’s edition. The organisers were targeting a Gold Label after this year’s race and some top athletes from Nigeria believed this will even make them to perform better running side-by-side with some of the top distance runners across the world. Speaking yesterday, Emmanuel Gyan, who just got married to his lover of many years, Deborah Pam, another top athlete the country can boast of, said they were ready for the race. “I have been available for the race in the last six editions, this time around, I am ready to do better than I have been doing in the past,” he said.  “Although, we are going to be competing with some of the best in the world, but that will only ginger us better, especially those of us from Nigeria. “It is not going to be easy, but we are all battle ready and nothing will stop us from getting our dues as an athlete in Nigeria. “I got married recently and my wife also ready to achieve a better position this time around. She has been the best from the country, but now ready to compete with the other top women runners.” On her part, Pam said marriage would not stop her from achieving the goal of coming out on tops at this year’s Okpekpe Race. Meanwhile, the organisers had announced the arrival of all the athletes expected for the race and will embark on the tour of the course today in line with IAAF requirements. Head of the race secretariat, Mercy Etukudo said this year’s race would be explosive, as only the best athletes over the 10 km distance had been assembled for the race. The race would be live on the terrestrial platform of the Africa Independent Television, AIT.