Linus Oota, Lafia Outgoing governor of Nasarawa State Umaru Tanko Al-Makura has explained that he sold state government assets in Jos, Kaduna and Lagos state to fund the construction of an ultra modern Nasarawa state liason office in Abuja. Al-Makura, who stated this in Abuja while commissioning the new state government liason office, noted that those properties in Jos and Lagos were no longer useful to the state government. The governor added that he is fulfilled that he was able to implement a number of legacy projects and delivered on his promised to run a government of inclusion that has left no resident and area of the state behind. He said that the complex was conceived in 2005 with a completion period of 30 months, but was abandoned since 2008 at a 60% completion. “When we came on board, we re-awarded the construction of the complex to KCC construction Ltd in 2018, with a completion period of 12 months at the sum of N1.1billion,” Al-Makura explained. “The project would serve as additional source of revenue to the state in view of its strategic location at central business district of the FCT. “The complex has facilities such as 115 accommodation rooms, 35 lettable office rooms, one banquet hall, one exhibition room, one kitchen and restaurant, one office apartment of the executive governor of the state. “The completion of this project was funded from the proceeds of the sale of Nasarawa State moribund assets laying waste in Lagos, Jos and Kaduna states. Our administration took this measure because this edifice is more economically viable and will serve the interest of the state much more better,” he said The governor, who exits office on Wednesday, 29 May, had presented the staff of office at the weekend to HRH Lawrence Syvester Ayih, the Abaga of Tony chiefdom in Kokona Local government area of the state, a first class chief. He said he had no apology in establishing four chiefdoms last Friday, which includes Gudi, Musha, Gitata and Gude chiefdoms with third class status. The outgoing governor said that during his first tenure as governor, with the state witnessing turbulent inter tribal crises, it took the support of traditional institution to put the troubles to an end, noting that no administration succeeds without the support of traditional institutions. Al-Makura equally presented the staff of office to immediate past minister of environment Alhaji Ibrahim Usman Jibrin as the 12th Emir of Nasarawa.