The Nigerian Army has said its troops killed several suspected Boko Haram fighters in various operations at different locations in Borno State. Acting Director of Army Public Relations, Col. Sagir Musa, disclosed this in a statement yesterday. He said some insurgents attempting to infiltrate Gajigana town were ambushed by troops of 212 Tank Battalion deployed at the Forward Operation Base Gajigana on Friday. The Army spokesman confirmed that the soldiers under the operational command of 7 Division Garrison acted based on credible intelligence and killed “unconfirmed number of terrorists”. He, however, noted that two soldiers were wounded during the encounter but were already stable and receiving treatment in a military hospital. Musa added that troops of 121 and 192 Battalions of Operation Lafiya Dole in collaboration with Civilian JTF and local vigilantes also embarked on clearance operations to end Boko Haram terrorism. He explained that the troops effectively cleared Surdewalla, Ranwa, Baladayo, Sabon Gari and Shetimeri villages of Borno State in a simultaneous operation code-named ‘Operation Hard Strike’. “At Ranwa 11, contact was made with the terrorists, three of them were neutralised, while many were obviously wounded and others escaped,” the army spokesman revealed. He added, “Troops of 192 Battalion advanced along Sabon Gari and Shetimeri villages where they cleared a scout of Boko Haram terrorists. A make-up shift shelter for suspected insurgents was destroyed.” Similarly, troops of 177 Task Force Battalion in collaboration with the Civilian JTF cleared Mboa, Mboa-Kura, Yarchida, Bombula, Tshata, and Bamzir villages. At Furfur village, Musa said  the soldiers exchanged fire with the insurgents, leading to the death of one suspected terrorist. Recovered items  from him included one AK47 rifle, three magazines, 50 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition, and one magazine bandolier Meanwhile, the General Officer Commanding 7 Division, Major General Abdulmalik Biu, while on assessment visit to FOB Gajigana urged the troops to remain decisive and intensify efforts in eliminating the remnants of the Insurgents.