Four persons were killed and 10 buildings destroyed in a suspected cult clash at Afokeplla in the Etsako-East Local Government Area of Edo last Monday A News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) correspondent who visited the area on Friday reported that residents of the community are living in fear following the attack and reprisal attack by members of the cult groups. A resident of the community, Mr Ahmed Seidu, told NAN that the killings were as a result of a misunderstanding between members of rival cult groups in the community. “The crisis escalated when one of the leaders of one of the cult groups was shot dead, resulting in a show of force by the rival groups. Since Monday, we have been living in fear, hoping that the situation will be brought under control by the security agencies,’’ Seidu said. The Chairman of the council, Mr Aremiyau Momoh, who visited the community, confirmed that 10 buildings were set ablaze in the attack on the community. Momoh said the council had imposed a curfew from 8p.m. to 6 a.m. in the community, until the situation was brought under control. “The cult crisis which started on Monday has led to the killing of four persons and the destruction of 10 buildings in the community. The police have commenced investigation and very soon, those who are found wanting will be brought to book. “The community is now devoid of its usual busy commercial activities as residents have gone into hiding for fear of reprisal attacks, while the police are on ground doing their investigation. “As chairman of the council, I have imposed a curfew from 8p.m. to 6a.m. in the community and anyone found wanting at this hour would be arrested and handed over to the security agencies.’’ However, when contacted on the matter, the Edo Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Chidi Nwanbuzor, said that the command was not aware of the situation. “We don’t have that report yet. I will have to get across to the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Okpella on this development,’’ he said.