Christopher Oji Two policemen and two paramilitary officers attached to the Lagos State Task Force were at the weekend injured by commercial motor cycle (okada) operators during enforcement duty on restricted routes in Lagos. Already seven persons have been arrested and charged to court in connection with the attacks. The attack on the security men were allegedly carried out by the okada operators plying restricted routes around Oworonsoki, Adeniji Adele junction, Obalende, Falomo, Lekki Phase 1 and Ikoyi Link-Bridge areas of the state. The Chairman, Lagos State Task Force, CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi, disclosed that the motorcycle operators attacked officers of the agency with stones, bottles and iron-rod while on legitimate mission to arrest culprits plying restricted routes. CSP Egbeyemi disclosed further that the four officers of the agency were seriously injured with deep cuts on their heads, faces and legs as they were pelted with stones, iron rods bottles and cudgels. He said, however, the officers were not deterred as they were able to arrest seven persons and impound 92 motorcycles plying restricted routes including highways and bridges “During the enforcement operations some suspected motorcyclists started shouting and calling the attention of their colleagues in their native languages, thereafter other motorcycle operators from nowhere started throwing stones, bottles and iron-rods at my officers.” Egbeyemi who enjoined other relevant stakeholders to support the agency in curbing the menace of okada riders said he was worrisome  seeing motorcycle operators shuttling and struggling right of ways with motorists on Ikoyi Link-Bridge, Falomo, Lekki Phase 1, Adeniji Adele including Obalende. He said: “The government will no longer tolerate attacks on officers and men of the agency. Just recently, a police officer with the agency died as a result of serious injury he sustained from hoodlums while on enforcement duty around Mile 12 area.” He said the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, condemned the attack and warned that the police under his watch would no longer tolerate criminal attacks and assault on personnel or facilities. He directed Egbeyemi to immediately charge the suspects to court. Our correspondent reports that the suspects were immediately arraigned in court as directed by the CP, to serve as a deterrent to others who might be desiring to attack officers on duties.