Alhaji Bello Abubakar-Gwiwa, the Sokoto state Commissioner for Basic and Secondary Education says the establishement of Rochas Foundation College has assisted in reducing out-of-school children in the state. Bello-Guiwa stated this on at the College Founders Day celebration in Shuni village of Dange-Shuni local government area of the state. The Commissioner who was represented by the Ministry’s Director of Establishment, Alhaji Muhammadu Bello, said education is the bedrock of meaningful development. He said Rochas Foundation has done right thing in the right direction on school noting that it would leave an indelible mark in the lives of the younger generations. “Establishment of Rochas Foundation College in Sokoto has played a significant role in depleting the number of out-of-school children in the state and this venture is worthy of emulation. ‘ Iam using this medium to call on well-to-do Nigerians to emulate this great gesture by helping the less-privileged members in the society. In his remark, Chairman of the occasion and former Commissioner for Basic and Secondary Education in the state,Alhaji Jabbi Kilgori described education as more rewarding investment especially in the lives of the less-privileged members of the society. ” I want to commend the founder of this foundation who choose to improve the lives of the down trodden in the society by providing them with free education. Speaking also, former Nigerian Ambassador to Jordan and Dan Masanni Sokoto, Alhaji Ladan Shuni, expressed appreciation ti Rochas Okorocha, who saw the need to invest in the lives of the less-privileged across the country. “Rochas has chosen to better the lives of the children of the less-privileged through provision of free education. District Head of Shuni, Alhaji Jabbi Harande commended the founder stressing that the gesture will go a long way to better the lives of the people of the community. ” Our children are the majority of the beneficiaries of this foundation and we are grateful and promise to support the institution to succeed in our own little way. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Founders day of Rocha’s Foundation College was organised to mark the birthday of the founder of the College, Sen. Rochas Okorocha Rochas Foundation College has schools across 12 states of the Federation spread across the six geopolitical zones of the country. (NAN)