An American media personality, writer and businesswoman, Wendy has received the 2,677th star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the talk show host and radio legend Williams, received her star on Hollywood Walk of Fame on Thursday night, accompanied by her son Kelvin Jr. After receiving the award, the media personality was quoted by E-News, as saying, “the elephant in the room is that I’ve been having a very, very tough year. “But, slowly but surely, I’m climbing out of the pit and this is one of those monumental days that makes me say, you know, if you don’t believe in yourself who will believe in you? Sometimes life is a very lonely path and you’ve got to make some hard decisions,” she said. The talk show host in her speech appreciated her family, fans and her “loyal hard-working staff” at “The Wendy Williams Show,” Williams also appreciated Mort Marcus and Ira Bernstein of Debmar-Mercury, the dispensers of her programme. She, however, noted that her greatest talk-show inspirations were Mike Douglas and Dinah Shore. “Jack and Elvis and Mitch and people have said throughout the day … I’m successful because I’ve done things my way. No, not exactly. It’s because I’m a good listener to advice, and if I don’t like the advice, then I do things my way. “I did not know I would be a talk-show host, but I liked the chit-chat — I’ve always liked the chit-chat. “When they told me, ‘It’s going to be a live talk show,’ I was frightened — frightened. Doing it by myself, I had no problem with it because most of my career I’ve been by myself. “Even in a room full of a thousand people, I always feel like the person who doesn’t belong. “If I don’t laugh, I’ll cry, so I’ll keep it light and laughter-y,” Williams said as she took the stage to accept her honour, choking back tears all the same. The media personality also said the honour also meant a lot to her 19-year-old son, Kelvin Jr, whom she had with her separated husband, Kelvin Hunter. “My son is here with me … he’s only 19, he’s only known me as Mom with the microphone, and then Mom in the headlines, and Mom saying out-of-order stuff,” “So, this star means everything. “Because now he’s got something to look at and say, ‘my mom did it.” NAN reports that Williams is an American actress, fashion designer, and media personality. She has hosted the nationally syndicated television talk show “The Wendy Williams Show” since 2008. She is also a writer and actress and have starred in movies such as Think Like a Man (2012, 2014) Mike and Dave Need Wedding Dates in 2016. Hollywood Walk of Fame comprises more than 2,600 five-pointed terrazzo and brass stars embedded in the sidewalks along 15 blocks of Hollywood Boulevard and three blocks of Vine Street in Hollywood, California. The Hollywood Chamber of Commerce holds trademark rights to the Hollywood Walk of Fame. (NAN)