Romanus Ugwu, Abuja Democracy Vanguard of Nigeria in Diaspora (DVND), an ally to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate in the 2019 general elections, Atiku Abubakar, has expressed concerns over the delay in constituting the seven-man Presidential Elections Appeal Panel. The group, in a statement jointly signed by the Director Outreach, North America Coordinator and President of DVND, Leonard Ishiguzo, Yakubu Mohammad and Timothy Sule, respectively, alleged unholy alliance between the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) and President Muhammadu Buhari, claiming that it was responsible for the delay, just as they described it as dangerous for Nigeria’s democracy. “Reports and indications hovering in the air is that President Buhari and his trains are doing everything possible, abusing the power of the office of the president to influence Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Muhammad into ‘technically delaying the constitution of the seven-man justices to preside over the case. The purpose is self-defeating. “There are also alternative plans to jettison the historical precedents of the courts by choosing the judges according to positioning in the court to a style of staccato nomination by determining judges who will be favorable to the whims and caprices of Mr. Buhari and the APC. “Nigeria is greater and more important than Mr President and his cabal. We call on the good people of Nigeria, the International Community and the African Union to ensure that the independence of the judiciary must remain sacrosanct and inalienable. To do otherwise is to court anarchy and chaos. “A credible, clear, crystal, conforming situation that allows the Supreme Court to function without any abysmal interference from the Executive will foster law and order and will bring back the trust and confidence Nigerians have in the judiciary,” the statement read. The group also commended Atiku Abubakar for shunning violence after the poll, stressing that his resolve to seek redress through judiciary shows  that the PDP candidate is a true democrat who loves his country than his personal ambition. “We want to applaud Atiku Abubakar who deserves encompassing encomium for successfully stopping his electors and voters from taking the laws into their hands, which demonstrates his strong democratic principles and his belief in the judiciary.”