Tiger Woods has the reputation of one of the greatest golfers of all-time – with 15 major trophies to back up the claim. Woods has given an incredible insight into how he prepares for major tournaments – and how he has become one of history’s greatest golfers. American Woods has won 15 majors, bettered only by Jack Nicklaus’ 18, with him most recent coming at this year’s Masters – which marked an almost superhuman comeback from serious back injuries. For Woods, his quest for success starts with his practice routine. He said: “My practice routine… It has changed over the years. I used to work on everything, every day, but I can no longer do that anymore. “So I have to pick my parts. A lot of my prep time revolves around my kids. I get my work done while they’re at school, and that’s usually my lift and my practising, and then go pick them up, and after that, it’s usually either soccer practice or dad stuff. “So, you know, the days of me going out there and practising hours upon hours, day after day, has changed. You know, life changes, life evolves. And there are two more important things in my life than golf…” After making sure he is fully prepared, Woods needs to make sure he is peaking at the right time of the year to challenge for major tournaments. Woods explains: “Well, building my game up in the off weeks for, say, a major championship, I don’t know if it’s right to say it or not, but sometimes it’s sacrificing a tournament here and there, working on a few things, knowing that in the bigger picture things will pan out. Trying shots that I probably shouldn’t try in some events may pay dividends down the road. “Sometimes, you know, it works out. I end up winning that event. But the bigger picture is, you know, trying to get mind, body and soul coming together for four times a year. Along the way, if I’m able to tick off wins, it also gives me added confidence, knowing that my game is ready. My game is that close to being prepped and peaked for those events. “Being prepped and being ready for the big events is one thing, but controlling the anxiousness, the need to feel like I need to do more at an event, I think that’s where a lot of my past experience has helped. I don’t really spend a lot of time searching for it on the range, searching for it on the putting green or chipping green .I’ve always felt that I do my best work away from the site. And then when I go there, I go there to win. “A lot of times, all of a sudden, you get a feel for what’s going on in that particular week. And I may spend more time, say if I’m playing at Augusta, I’ll spend more time, you know, hitting more feel putts. “If I’m at an Open Championship, I’ll spend a little bit more time hitting some bump-and-runs. At a U.S. Open, spending a few more chips around the greens, hitting out of the cabbage. These are things that I will adjust per event, but I won’t spend as much time as some of the other players on the golf course, you know, practising and working on things because, you know, I always felt that it was best to have enough energy. And if I feel like my tank is full of energy over the course of the four-day marathon, that I’d… I’d figure out a way.”