Judex Okoro, Calabar The management of the University of Calabar Teaching Hospital (UCTH) has warned the Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists of Nigeria (AMSLN) to desist from fuelling further crisis in the health institution. The management described the attitude of members of the association as irresponsible and against the ethics of their profession. For last couple of weeks, the Association has been engaged in a battle of supremacy with medical doctors over who should head the laboratory unit. While the medical doctors insist that the law establishing teaching hospitals across the country, and in line with Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria, designate only their members to head the departments, the Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists of Nigeria argue that they are the logical specialists to head laboratory units. The laboratory scientists have also accused the management of UCTH of giving undue preference to medical doctors against laboratory scientists students, as well as using security operatives to harass their members. Decrying the attitude of the Association and its members, the Chief Medical Director of UCTH, Prof Ikpeme Asanye Ikpeme, said it was unfortunate that the Association was engaged in a “misinformation” campaign in the media to curry favour with the ministry and members of the public. “The attention of the Management of the University of Calabar Teaching Hospital has been drawn to the various misinformation and lopsided stories extensively peddled by the Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists of Nigeria and circulated by the electronic and in social media. It is unfortunate that such blatant fabrications could emanate from the association,” Ikpeme stated. “Among other deliberate fabrications, it is indeed worrisome that the death of a young man who collapsed and died on his private property outside the hospital and in the presence of his father could be politicised to seek unmerited attention. “This is irresponsible unionism at its peak. As a responsible management, it would be an exercise in futility to join issues with already poisoned minds, apart from pre-empting the outcome of the reports expected from the panels of inquiry set up by the managements of the hospital and the University of Calabar to investigate the matter.” The CMD enjoined the public, stakeholders and staff to remain calm and disregard the rumours making the rounds about the hospital, adding that “truth no matter the level of concealment will be exposed at the appropriate time.” The panel set up a few weeks ago by the management to is expected to turn in its report soon.