On behalf of Yetunde and myself, I thank our in-laws, Mr. and Mrs. Mike Awoyinfa for bringing up a fine young gentleman as Taiwo Awoyinfa.  We give thanks to the Almighty God who predestined Taiwo and Mojisola for marriage and led us all to witness what He had ordained.  What a glorious day indeed it was!  May Mojisola and Taiwo Awoyinfa experience and demonstrate God’s grace and mercy for a successful marriage. Amen.  Olusola Lawson, father of the bride Another enjoyable article from the enigma that is Mike Awoyinfa.  I love Jane Austen with all my head and soul.  I have read about 3 of her novels.  Pride and Prejudice, Sense and Sensibility and Jude the Obscure.  She, Shakespeare and Christopher Marlowe are part of the select few that shaped my spoken and written English, so I envy you right now being so close to the home she birthed all her classic novels.  More importantly, wishing your son and his jewel of inestimable value the best of conjugal bliss.  God will guide them through this journey and envelop them in his love, care, guidance, protection and blessings.  God bless you too sir for you weekly articles.  E ma pe fun wa.  Nelly Jose Mourinho Sylva Oh, what a coincidence!  Taiwo Awoyinfa got married in the hometown of a classic literary romance.  Remember Jane Austen’s immortal quote: “It is a truth, universally acknowledged that a single man in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife.”  Congratulations to the Awoyinfas for the beautiful day.  Wishing the couple happy married life. Kassim Omololu “It is a truth universally acknowledged that a young man in possession of a large fortune must be in want of a wife.”  Pride and Prejudice.  Jane Austen.  Congratulations Holy Mike.  I am happy Taiwo has acted well the role of Mr. Darcy, the principal actor in the book.  What a coincidence!  Wishing them happy married life.  Gboyega Amoboye My joy enlarged when I read your remarks on Jane Austen and her books.  According to one author, those who didn’t read literature are missing one of the world’s greatest pleasures.  Ralph Ohale Congratulations to the couple and all stakeholders.  Chido Nwakanma God bless the couple with a togetherness that lasts forever. Esther Inyang Our big congratulations to your entire family and particularly to Mr. and Mrs. Taiwo Awoyinfa.  This is the Lord’s doing and it is marvelous in our eyes.  Reading your piece I did not see any mention of your darling wife and to worsen matters your piece reads ‘My son’s glorious day’ rather than ‘Our son’s…’ I am protesting as a gender sensitive person.  Best wishes.  Prof. Isaac Obasi,
University of Abuja Our very dear Mike and Buki Awoyinfa, we sincerely congratulate you on the successful marriage of your son and daughter, Taiwo and Mojisola.  We wish the couple a very successful and God-blessed married life.  Prof. and Mrs. Olu Odeyemi What a beautiful write-up on your son’s wedding!  It’s forever, in Jesus name.
Yetunde Teriba Congrats to your son and his wife.  Wish them all the best marriage can bring under God’s watchful eyes.  Edu Richy Okeke Wow! What a really glorious wedding!  Congratulations sir.  Mrs. Vera Okpe
Tafabalewa, RCCG, Cornerstone Even if I attended I may not have caught the essence of this vintage report.  God bless their union with wisdom, multiple birth, sound health and prosperity in Jesus name.  Yomi Idowu Congrats.  A joyful matrimonial life to them.  Okey Ndibe Congratulations will never cease in their lives.  Time after time, they shall be overwhelmed with good tidings.  Faith Okoh Congratulations, proud father.  May God indeed bless their union.  May you live to witness the marriage of their children too.  Kufre Ekanem May peace and prosperity laced with abundant good health and unlimited wealth abide with this new family forever.
Abdulrahman Ahmed Albushra Congratulations to the newlyweds!  May their joy endure and may their love continue to grow.  Sending best wishes to both families.  Modele Sarafa-Yusuf Reporter Awoyinfa, our own distinguished Editor, may God bless the union of the new couple.  We can’t wait for the subsequent report.  Enjoy sir.  My hearty congratulations.  Tunde Akanni Congratulations to the Awoyinfa and the Lawson families.  Mike Awoyinfa has written great scripts for newspapers for many decades and Sola Lawson, an advertising man has written great copies for clients for decades.  These two love birds are the greatest copies both fathers have ever written.  I join to pray that theirs will be a journey filled with joy, happiness and sunshine expressed not only in letters but in love and in deed in Jesus name.  Femi Agbedejobi Well penned, nothing else to add than for all your prayers to be answered by God.  Congratulations to the couple and may they find fulfillment in their marriage.  Congratulations to you too sir. Morakinyo
Abodunrin Congratulations.  May the couple be blessed with good children, good health, long life and great wealth.  Yusuf
Olaniyonu Congratulations to the new wonderful couple.  I echo you to pray that the bright sunshine that lit up their wedding day will continue to shine all through their life journey.  Kester Olaifa This is straight from the heart of a proud and happy father who God has been so kind to in witnessing these joyous coming of age of his children.  May our sources of joy never be taken away from us in Jesus name.  Remain blessed sir.  Pastor Tope Kayode-Ojo, Foursquare Church, Asokoro, Abuja What a beautifully made piece you wrote!  I am very proud to have been mentioned with some esteemed people on the cover of a well-known daily.  It has been a great pleasure to meet. I will keep and treasure the memories.  While I was writing this, I had a call from Taiwo to thank me for an effort I made.  What a boy!  Imagine that, and another attitude when I email pictures to 15-20 guests from the wedding and none even send an email to say thank you.  When you see that how can you not like people who let you photograph?  When they let me take their pictures I feel like they gave me something.  I say this because I heard you write poetry, so you will understand what I mean.  Regards.  Dragan Mikki, international society photographer who covered the wedding for Ovation Magazine.