Gilbert Ekezie Diabetes is a health condition, which a person develops when the ability of the body to produce or response to insulin is impaired. Insulin is a hormone made by the pancreas, a gland in the alimentary system of the body, which is vital in the metabolism of carbohydrates and particularly in the control of the level of glucose in the blood. Millions of people all over the world suffer from diabetes. Unfortunately, many people who have it do not know, and such ignorance increases the possibility of the person developing the complications associated with diabetes, some of which could prove fatal. The Chief Executive Officer of AKO Group of Companies, Mr Obiora Atuchukwu, who gave this insight to Sunday Sun in a chat, stated that diabetes is seen as one of the most dangerous and expensive health conditions one can develop because thousands of people die annually from the condition when not discovered and adequately managed with the appropriate therapeutic medications. He said diabetes kills patients very fast by causing a condition called diabetic ketoacidosis, whereby there is no insulin and no removal of glucose from blood, accumulation of huge amounts of ketone bodies in blood, which leads to coma and death. Atuchukwu also said high blood sugar leads to various infections in the body, hinting that it is extremely difficult and challenging to treat infections in diabetics. “Constant microscopic influence of huge amount of glucose in the blood leads to damage of the blood vessels. That is why many have blindness, kidney failure, heart failure, vascular failure with gangrenes and subsequent amputation of limbs, among other problems,” he said. Atuchukwu whose organization is the African sole marketer of Dykure Herbal Capsules and Diabiz Herbal Tea, made in India, explained that it is not the disease itself that kills its victims, but the deadly side effects that arise is if it is not treated properly. “If diabetes is not given adequate treatment over time, it could cause damage to small vessels, referred to as micro-vascular diseases. In fact, the ailment increases the infection risk and has killed so many, especially Nigerians in the recent times.” According to him adults with diabetes are up to four times more likely to die of heart disease than those without it. The American Heart Association even considers diabetes one of the seven heart disease risk factors that can actually be controlled. The AKO Group boss also said that uncontrolled diabetes can cause blood sugar levels to spike to dangerous heights. “If a person with this condition becomes severely dehydrated, the consequences could become deadly. So, the best option for normalizing blood sugar level and complete relief from diabetes is Dykure Herbal Capsules and Diabiz Herbal Tea formulated by the combination of various herbs, which have been serving Indians for many years.” He further explained that the Dykure products have been proven to be effective, with no side effects. “When you talk about normalizing blood sugar and complete relief from diabetes, Dykure products are the answer. They are natural and start from the root cause of the problem to solve it. Many have testified to the efficacy of Dykure products.”